 
 
TO BE UPLOADED ON THE WEBSITE OF COMMISSION ON 13TH APRIL, 2026 
  
File No. HQ-RHQS015/1/2026/C-4 
Government of India 
Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, 
Department of Personnel & Training 
Staff Selection Commission 
(website:-https://ssc.gov.in) 
 
ADVERTISEMENT NO. Phase-XIV/2026/Selection Posts 
 
Dates for submission of online applications 	13.04.2026 to 04.05.2026 
Last date and time for receipt of online applications 	04.05.2026 
(Up to 2300 Hrs.) 
Last date and time for making online fee payment 	05.05.2026 
(Up to 2300 Hrs.) 
Dates of ‘Window for Application Form Correction’ including online payment. 	11.05.2026 to 13.05.2026 (Up to 2300 Hrs.) 
Dates of Computer Based Examination 	 June, 2026 (Tentative) 
Toll Free Helpline Number to be called in case of any difficulty in filling up the Application Form 	1800 309 3063 
 
“GOVERNMENT STRIVES TO HAVE A WORK FORCE WHICH REFLECTS GENDER BALANCE AND WOMEN CANDIDATES ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY” 
 
   Online Applications are invited from eligible candidates for Selection Posts as indicated in Annexure-III of this Notice. The vacancies indicated are tentative in nature and Commission reserves the right to alter/change/cancel/withdraw/merge any or all the vacancies at any time if need arises. The candidates should go through this Notice of Recruitment carefully before applying for the post(s) and ensure that they fulfill all the eligibility conditions like Age-Limit/ Essential Qualifications (EQs)/Experience/Category etc. as stipulated therein. The candidates, who qualify in Computer Based Examination (CBE), will have to upload all relevant documents on Portal for scrutiny of the documents. The candidature will be summarily rejected in the event of their failure to do so. The Commission does not verify details filled by Candidates while applying for any post. Application is accepted provisionally and the detailed scrutiny of application & documents will be carried out by the User Department(s) concerned after declaration of result of Computer Based Examination. Candidature of the candidates, not meeting the prescribed eligibility conditions, will be cancelled at any stage of recruitment process without any notice. The candidature of applicants shall be purely PROVISIONAL at all stages of the recruitment process. After the candidates successful in CBE upload the documents on the portal, further action regarding scrutiny of documents, document verification, etc. will be taken by the User Departments in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Notice captioned ‘Selection Post Examination: Modification of procedure for conduct of scrutiny of documents and document verification (DV) by User Department’ published on 03.03.2026 on the website of the Commission. 
 
1.1. All the information relating to this recruitment, right from the stage of application up to the nomination of selected candidates to the User Departments concerned [including Admission Certificate for Computer Based Examination (CBE) to the provisionally eligible candidates], will be available on the website of Staff Selection Commission (https://ssc.gov.in) and/or on the websites of concerned User Department/Regional Office(s) of the Commission. In addition to the above, the candidates may receive call letters / other communication from the User Departments regarding conduct of DV, etc. in accordance with the procedure outlined in the Notice dated 03.03.2026. 
1.2. The candidates are advised to visit the website of concerned Regional Office periodically for latest/updated information in respect of various categories of posts pertaining to the Region concerned and the various stages of recruitment process. 
2.	The details/descriptions of various posts are given at Annexure-III of this Notice. Post-details can be seen by clicking on web-link: https://ssc.gov.in/rhq-selection-post/rhq-post-details and thereafter, selecting the Name of examination as Phase-XIV/2026/Selection Posts and the name of Regional Office to which the particular Post belongs. 
2.1.	The vacancies have been advertised by Staff Selection Commission as per indents submitted by the respective Ministries/Departments/Offices. The Commission will not be responsible for withdrawal/alteration of vacancies by the indenting User Ministry/Department/Office(s). Therefore, the Commission reserves the right to alter/change/cancel/withdraw/merge any or all the vacancies at any time during recruitment. The vacancies indicated in the notice are tentative only. 
2.2.	The candidates, who wish to apply for more than one post, should apply separately for each category of post. 
2.3.	Staff Selection Commission recruits personnel on the basis of vacancies reported by the User Ministries/Departments/Organizations. The Commission has no role in the determination of total vacancies (Vertical and Horizontal) arising in a Ministry/Department/Organization, backlog vacancies, segregation of vacancies under various reserved categories and vacancies reported to be filled up by direct recruitment. After the declaration of final result/Select List of a post category, the dossiers of selected candidates only will be forwarded to the User Ministries/ Departments/Organizations and the same shall be necessarily accepted by them. No User Ministry/Department/Organization shall return these dossier(s) of selected candidates on the ground of non-availability of Horizontal vacancies or on the ground that a Horizontal vacancy exists but the dossier of that category has not been provided by the Commission. 
2.4.	Staff Selection Commission collects vacancies from respective User Ministries/Departments/ Organization. The Final Result/Select List of a category of post is declared and nominations/ recommendations are made against such advertised vacancies only. The User Ministries/ Departments/Organizations will, therefore, accept the nominations made and the dossiers sent to them. In case a Ministry/Department/Organization is wound up, reorganized or transferred under the administrative control of another Ministry/Department/Organization, its successor / administrative Ministry/Department will accept the dossiers. In the event of entire hierarchy of organizations up to Ministry level is wound up, the Ministry/Department to which its work has been transferred would accept the dossiers. In case, the work of Ministry/Department/ Organization has not been transferred after its winding up to any other Ministry/Department, the Ministry/Department whose work is closely related to the work of erstwhile Ministry will accept the dossiers. Decision of the Commission in this regard shall be final. 
3.	Conditions on seeking Fee-concession, Age-relaxation, and Reservation etc: 
3.1.	For SC/ST applicants:- The applicants belonging to SC/ST category seeking Fee-concession, Age-relaxation, and Reservation etc. shall invariably submit the requisite certificates as per the format (Annexure-VI) from Competent Authority (Appendix-I of this Notice) certifying that their Caste/Sub-Castes/Communities are approved by Government of India under SC and ST Category, as and when called for by the Commission/User Ministry/Department concerned, after conduct of Computer Based Examination (CBE) or at any stage thereafter, otherwise their claims for fee concession, age-relaxation, reservation etc. shall not be considered. 
3.2.	For OBC applicants: The applicants of OBC category, who are not covered under creamy layer in terms of Standing Instructions of Government of India as amended from time-to-time, seeking Age-relaxation, Reservation etc. shall invariably submit the requisite certificate as per the format (Annexure-VII). A person seeking appointment to a selection post on the basis of reservation admissible to OBCs candidates must ensure that he/she possesses caste/community certificate. Further, he/she should not fall in creamy layer on the crucial date. The crucial date for this purpose will be 04.05.2026. Such candidates may also note that their candidature will remain provisional till the veracity of the concerned document is verified by the Appointing Authority. 
NOTE: The Commission will not insist on candidates producing OBC certificate issued within crucial/cut-off date. The candidature of OBC candidate will remain provisional, subject to verification of his/her claim by the Appointing Authority. 
 
3.3.	For Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) applicants: - The applicants seeking reservation of EWS category shall invariably submit the requisite certificate as per Format (Annexure-XI) from the Competent Authority (Appendix-I of this Notice), as and when called for by the Commission/User Department concerned, otherwise their claims for reservation etc. shall not be considered. A person, seeking appointment on the basis of reservation to EWS Category, must ensure that he possesses the Income & Asset certificate valid for the financial Year 20262027 issued on the basis of Income for the financial year 2025-2026. Candidates may also note that their candidature will remain provisional till the veracity of the concerned document is verified by the Appointing Authority. 
3.4.	The crucial date for claiming SC/ST/OBC/EWS/PwBD/ESM status, Fee-concession and Reservation, where not specified otherwise, will be 04.05.2026. The crucial date here does not mean that the date of certificate(s) should be before the closing date of application, it means that on the crucial date, the candidate(s) must fall under the categories SC/ST/OBC/EWS/PwBD/ESM, as applicable. 
3.5.	For Central Government Civilian Employees (CGCE) Applicants:- 
3.5.1.	Central Government Civilian Employees should have rendered not less than 03 years continuous service on regular basis (and not on ad-hoc basis) as on 04.05.2026 and should remain in Central Govt. Service holding civil post in any Department/Offices of Government of India till the candidate receives Offer of Appointment from the User Department/Office, where the candidate gets finally recommended for appointment. 
3.5.2.	For claiming the benefit of age-relaxation, the CGCE candidate shall invariably submit the requisite certificate in prescribed Format (Annexure-X) from Competent Authority (Appendix-I of this Notice) and also submit a Self-declaration as per Annexure-X(A), as and when called for by the Commission/User Department, otherwise their claim for age-relaxation shall not be considered. Further, they will be required to furnish a “No Objection Certificate” from their Employer at the time of Document Verification, failing which their candidature is liable to be cancelled at that very stage or at any stage of recruitment process. 
3.5.3.	Age relaxation to Central Government Civilian Employees (CGCE) is not applicable for Group ‘B’ posts, in accordance with the instructions contained under the DoPT’s OM No. 15012/2/2010-Estt.(D) dated 27.03.2012. 
 
NOTE:- In the event of the employer of a candidate informing the Commission intimating about withholding of permission to the candidate to apply/ appearing in the examination, his/her applications shall be rejected and candidature shall be cancelled. 
 
4.	For Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) [OH/ HH/ VH/ Others] Applicants:- 
4.1.	Suitability of the posts for the Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) and the nature of disabilities admissible are indicated against each category of post in Annexure-III.  
 
NOTE-I: The provisions contained in Notification No. 38-16/2020-DDIII dated 04.01.2021 issued by Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, as amended time to time, regarding “...Posts identified suitable for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities Notified on 04.01.2021” will apply to the posts indicated in Annexure-III, wherever applicable. Therefore, the candidates with such disabilities may also apply giving details of their disabilities in online Application Form. However, their selection will be subject to identification of posts suitable for these categories as well as reporting of vacancies by the Indenting Departments. Further, the candidates are advised to check their eligibility as per the details of posts mentioned in the Notification No. 38-16/2020-DDIII dated 04.01.2021 before applying for any post. 
The web-link to access Notification No. 38-16/2020-DDIII dated 04.01.2021 is given hereunder:- https://disabilityaffairs.gov.in/content/page/notifications.php 
NOTE-II: In terms of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Deptt. of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan)’s Notification No. 30-12/2022-DD.III dated 24.08.2022 (for amendment in Notification No. 38-16/2020-DD-III dated 04.01.2021), a separate sub-category (i.e. Spinal Deformity (SD) / Spinal Injury (SI) without any associated neurological / limb dysfunction) shall be incorporated under Locomotor Disabilities in addition to OA, OL, BA, BL, OAL, BLOA and BLA. Therefore, all the posts identified in the list stand identified suitable for persons with SD/SI without neurological/limb dysfunction under the Locomotor Disabilities. 
 
4.2.	Only those Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) who are having the benchmark disabilities are eligible for claiming Fee-concession, Age-relaxation and for Reservation, wherever applicable.  
 
4.3.	Such candidates shall invariably submit the requisite Certificate in Format [Annexure-VIII (Form-V)/(Form-VI)] as and when called for by Commission/User Department concerned, otherwise their claim for PwBD status will not be entertained. The certificate of disability issued under “the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 (1 of 1996)” will also be valid. 
4.4.	Special Instructions for PwBD Candidates:- As the “Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016” has come into force with effect from 19.04.2017, and besides OH, HH and VH categories, new categories of disabilities such as Autism, Dwarfism, Acid Attack victims, Muscular Dystrophy, Intellectual Disability, Specific Learning Disability, Mental Illness and Multiple Disabilities, etc. have been included. Therefore, the candidates with such disabilities may also apply giving detail of their disabilities in the online Application Form.  However, their final selection will be subject to identification of the posts suitable for these categories as well as reporting of vacancies by the Indenting User Departments. Candidates suffering from various disabilities as identified in DoPT’s OM No. 36035/02/2017-Estt (Res) dated 15.01.2018 (Para-2.2 refers) may select the following PwBD categories in the online Registration/Application Form:- 
 
Sl. 
No. 	Types of Disability 	Category of disability to be selected in Registration 
/ Application Form 
(a) 	Blindness and low vision 	VH 
(b) 	Deaf and hard of hearing 	HH 
(c) 	Locomotor disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and muscular dystrophy. Spinal Deformity (SD)/Spinal Injury(SI) without any associated neurological/limb dysfunction 	OH 
(d) 	Autism, 	intellectual 	disability, specific learning disability and mental illness. 	Others 
(e) 	Multiple disabilities from amongst persons under clauses (a) to (d) including deaf- blindness 	
5.	Nationality/ Citizenship: 
5.1.	A candidate must be either: 
(a)	A citizen of India, or 
(b)	A subject of Nepal, or 
(c)	A subject of Bhutan, or 
(d)	A Tibetan Refugee who came over to India before 01st January 1962 with the intention of permanently settling in India, or 
(e)	A person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan, Burma, Sri Lanka, East African Countries of Kenya, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania (Formerly Tanganyika and Zanzibar), Zambia, Malawi, Zaire, Ethiopia and Vietnam with the intention of permanently settling in India. 
5.2.	Provided that a candidate belonging to categories (b), (c), (d) and (e) above shall be a person in whose favour a certificate of eligibility has been issued by Government of India. 
5.3.	A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may be admitted to the Examination but the offer of appointment will be given only after the necessary eligibility certificate has been issued to him/her by the Government of India. 
6.	Age-Limit (As on 01.01.2026): 
6.1.	Age-limit for a particular category of post(s) is mentioned in Post-details of Annexure-III against each category of post. Requirement of age-limit for various category of posts have been indicated hereunder:- 
Sl. No. 	Age Limit 	Remarks 
(i) 	For the posts for which age limit is 18-25 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-2001 and not later than 01-01-2008. 
(ii) 	For the posts for which age limit is 18-27 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1999 and not later than 01-01-2008. 
(iii) 	For the posts for which age limit is 18-28 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1998 and not later than 01-01-2008. 
(iv) 	For the posts for which age limit is 18-30 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1996 and not later than 01-01-2008 
(v) 	For the posts for which age limit is 18-35 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1991 and not later than 01-01-2008. 
(vi) 	For the posts for which age limit is 20-25 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-2001 and not later than 01-01-2006. 
(vii) 	For the posts for which age limit is 20-30 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1996 and not later than 01-01-2006. 
(viii) 	For the posts for which age limit is 21-27 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1999 and not later than 01-01-2005. 
(ix) 	For the posts for which age limit is 21-28 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1998 and not later than 01-01-2005. 
(x) 	For the posts for which age limit is 22-28 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1998 and not later than 01-01-2004. 
(xi) 	For the posts for which age limit is 23-28 years 	Candidate must have been born not earlier than 02-01-1998 and not later than 01-01-2003. 
 
6.2.	Proof for Date of Birth:- The Date of Birth as recorded in the Matriculation/Secondary Examination Certificate or equivalent certificate only will be accepted by the Commission for determining the age-limit eligibility and no subsequent request for its change will be considered or granted. 
 
6.3.	Relaxation in Upper age-limit: The relaxation in upper age-limit will be admissible to the eligible categories of applicants as indicated below: 
Category Codes 	Category 	Permissible Age-relaxation beyond upper age limit 
01 	SC/ ST 	5 years 
02 	OBC 	3 years 
03 	PwBD 	10 years 
04 	PwBD (OBC) 	13 years 
05 	PwBD (SC/ ST) 	15 years 
06 	Ex-Servicemen (ESM) 	03 years, after deduction of the military service rendered from actual age as on closing date. 
08 	Defence Personnel disabled in operation during hostilities with any foreign country or in a disturbed area and released as a consequence thereof 	03 years 
09 	Defence Personnel disabled in operation during hostilities with any foreign country or in a disturbed area and released as a consequence thereof (SC/ST) 	08 years 
Additional permissible relaxation in upper age limit for Group ‘C’ posts 
10 	Central Govt. Civilian Employees who have rendered not less than 03 years regular and continuous service as on 04.05.2026. 	Up to 40 years of age 
11 	Central Govt. Civilian Employees (SC/ST) who have rendered not less than 03 years regular and continuous service as on 04.05.2026. 	Up to 45 years of age 
12 	Widows/ Divorced Women/ Women judicially separated and who are not remarried 	Up to 35 years of age 
13 	Widows/ Divorced Women/ Women judicially separated and who are not remarried (SC/ ST) 	Up to 40 years of age 
 
Note-1: The age relaxation to the applicants of reserved category is admissible only in the case of vacancies being reserved for such categories. The applicants of reserved category, who apply against unreserved vacancies, will get age relaxation to the extent it is available to UR category candidates. 
Note-2: The applicants may check their eligibility for seeking relaxation in Upper Age Limit carefully. If eligible, they are required to fill appropriate Age Relaxation Code as applicable to them. 
Note-3: Date of Birth filled by the candidate in online application form and the same recorded in the Matriculation/Secondary Examination Certificate will be accepted by the Commission for determining the age and no subsequent request for change will be considered or granted. 
7.	Special Instructions for Ex-Servicemen (ESM) Applicants :- 
7.1.	ESM applicants seeking fee concession, age-relaxation and reservation, etc. shall invariably submit the requisite Certificate in prescribed Format at Annexure-IX, wherever applicable, from Competent Authority (Appendix-I of this Notice) and also submit a Declaration as per Format at Annexure-IX(A), as and when called for by the Commission/User Department or at the time of Document Verification, otherwise their claims for age-relaxation, reservation etc. shall not be considered. 
7.2.	Vacancies for Ex-Servicemen (ESM) are reserved for only Group-C posts as per extant Government Orders/Instructions. 
7.3.	The period of "Call up Service" of an Ex-Serviceman in Armed Forces shall also be treated as service rendered in the Armed Forces for purpose of age relaxation as per rules. 
7.4.	The Ex-Servicemen who have already secured an employment in civil side under Central Government in Group ‘C’ and ‘D’ posts on regular basis after availing of the benefits of reservation given to ex-servicemen for their re-employment are not eligible for reservation in ESM category and fee concession. However, he/she can avail the benefit of reservation as ExServiceman for subsequent employment if he/she immediately after joining in the civil employment, given self-declaration/undertaking to the concerned employer about date-wise details of applications for various vacancies for which he/she had applied for before joining the initial civil employment as indicated in DoPT’s OM No. 36034/1/2014-Estt (Res) dated 14th August 2014. 
7.5.	A Matriculate Ex-Serviceman (which includes an Ex-Serviceman, who has obtained Indian 
Army Special Certificate of Education or corresponding certificate in Navy or Air Force), 
who has put in not less than 15 years of service as on  04.05.2026 with Armed Forces of the Union shall be considered eligible for appointment to Group ‘C’ posts having “Graduation” as its minimum EQ, against posts reserved for ESM only subject to fulfillment of other eligibility conditions of the post. Thus, those Matriculate Ex-Servicemen who have not completed 15 years of service as on 04.05.2026 are not eligible for these posts. 
7.6.	Age-relaxation, fee concession, and reservation are not admissible to Sons, Daughters and Dependents of Ex-Servicemen. Hence, such candidates should not indicate their category as Ex-Servicemen (ESM). 
7.7.	For any serviceman of the three Armed Forces of the Union to be treated as ESM for the purpose of securing the benefits of reservation etc, he/she must have already acquired, at the relevant time of submitting his/her application for Post/ Service, the status of ESM; or is in a position to establish his/her acquired entitlement by documentary evidence from Competent Authority that he/she would complete specified term of engagement with the Armed Forces within the stipulated period of one year from 04.05.2026. Such candidates must also acquire the status of an ex-serviceman within the stipulated period of one year from 04.05.2026. 
 
7.8.	Ex-Servicemen (ESM): An “Ex-Serviceman” means a person: 
7.8.1.	who has served in any rank whether as a combatant or non-combatant in the Regular Army, Navy or Air Force of the Indian Union, and 
7.8.2.	who either has been retired or relieved or discharged from such service whether at his own request or being relieved by the employer after earning his or her pension; or 
7.8.3.	who has been relieved from such service on medical ground attributable to military service or circumstances beyond his control and awarded medical or other disability pension; or 
7.8.4.	who has been released from such service as a result of reduction in establishment; or 
7.8.5.	who has been released from such service after completing specific period of engagement, otherwise than at his own request, or by way of dismissal, or discharge on account of misconduct or inefficiency and has been given a gratuity, and includes personnel of the Territorial Army namely, pension holders for continuous embodies service or broken spells of qualifying service; or 
7.8.6.	personnel of the Army Postal Service who are part of Regular Army and retired from the Army Postal Service without reversion to their parent service with pension, or are released from the Army Postal service on medical grounds attributable to or aggravated by military service or circumstance beyond their control and awarded medical or other disability pension; or 
7.8.7.	Personnel, who were on deputation in Army Postal Service for more than six months prior 
to the 14th April,1987; or 
7.8.8.	Gallantry award winners of the Armed forces including personnel of Territorial Army; or 
7.8.9.	Ex-recruits boarded out or relieved on medical ground and granted medical disability pension. 
8.	Process of certification and format of certificates:  
8.1.	Candidates who wish to be considered against reserved vacancies or seeking age relaxation must submit the requisite certificate from the competent authority, in the prescribed format when such certificates are sought by concerned Indenting Departments/Organizations at the time of document verification or at any other time by the Commission/User Departments. Otherwise, their claim for 
SC/ ST/ OBC/ EWS/ PwBD/ ESM category will not be entertained and their candidature will be considered under Unreserved category if they fulfills all the eligibility for UR category. The formats of various certificates are annexed with Notice of this Examination. The certificate of disability issued under the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 (1 of 1996) will also be valid. The certificates in any other format are liable to be rejected.  
8.2.	Candidates must ensure that they belong to the category as filled in the application form and are able to prove the same by furnishing the requisite certificate issued by the competent authority when such certificates are sought by the concerned Indenting Departments/ Organizations at the time of Document Verification (DV) or at any other time, failing which their candidature will be considered under Unreserved category if they fulfill all the eligibility for UR category. If a candidature is rejected by the Indenting Department/Organization for non-furnishing of requisite certificate in support of the category filled in application form, the candidate will be solely responsible for the same and the Commission will not have any responsibility. Any grievance received in this regard in any form like Post, Email, by hand, etc. shall not be entertained by the Commission and it will be summarily rejected. For example, Candidate X filled SC in his application form. However, during document verification by Indenting Department/Organization, he is unable to produce the valid SC certificate. In such scenario, candidature of X will be considered under Unreserved category if he/she fulfills all the eligibility conditions prescribed for UR category. 
8.3.	The crucial date for claiming SC/ ST/ OBC/ EWS/ PwBD status or any other benefit viz. Fee concession, Reservation, Age-relaxation, etc., where not specified otherwise, will be 04.05.2026. The crucial date here does not mean that the date of certificate(s) should be before the closing date of application, it means that on the crucial date, the candidate(s) must fall under the categories SC/ST/OBC/EWS/PwBD/ESM, as applicable 
8.4.	A person seeking appointment on the basis of reservation to OBCs must ensure that he possesses the caste/community certificate and does not fall in creamy layer on the crucial date. 
8.5.	A person, seeking appointment on the basis of reservation to EWS Category, must ensure that he possesses the Income & Asset certificate valid for the financial Year 2026-2027 issued on the basis of Income for the financial year 2025-2026 in accordance with DoPT’s OM No. 36039/1/ 2019Estt (Res) dated 31.01.2019. 
8.6.	Candidates may also note that in respect of the above, their candidature will remain provisional till the veracity of the relevant documents is verified by the Appointing Authority. The candidates are cautioned that they will be debarred from the examinations conducted by the Commission in case they fraudulently claim SC/ ST/ OBC/ EWS/ PwBD/ ESM status or avail any other benefit. 
8.7.	The candidates with benchmark disabilities (PwBD) may note that they must select the appropriate PwBD sub-category i.e. OH/ HH/ VH/ PwBD-Other, while filling the application form as per their certificate of disability issued by the Competent Authority. No subsequent change in PwBD SubCategory will be allowed under any circumstances. Such candidates shall have to furnish requisite certificate from the Competent Authority as declared in the application form when such certificates are sought by the Indenting Department/Organizations at the time of document verification, failing which their candidature will be cancelled. The type of disability/disabilities (such as OA, OL, BL, DW, MI, SLD etc.) as indicated in Notification No. 38-16/2020-DD-III dated 04.01.2021 issued by Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, should be clearly mentioned by the 
Competent Authority issuing the certificate. If a candidate is rejected by the Indenting Department/ Organization for non-furnishing of requisite certificate in support of PwBD sub-category filled in the application form, the candidate will be solely responsible for the same and the Commission will not have any responsibility. Any grievance on the issue received in any form like Post, Email, by hand, etc. shall not be entertained by the Commission and it will be summarily rejected. 
 
 
9.	Provision of Compensatory Time and the assistance of a scribe: 
9.1.	In case of Persons with Benchmark Disabilities in the category of Blindness, Locomotor Disability (Both Arms affected - BA) and Cerebral palsy, the facility of scribe will be provided, subject to such requests being made to the Commission while filling up the online application form, uploading of requisite certificate (Annexure-VIII of Notice/Disability Certificate) while filling up the Application form and subject to the posts being identified suitable for these categories of disability.   
9.2.	In case of remaining categories of persons with benchmark disabilities, the provision of scribe will be made available on production of a certificate to the effect that the person concerned has physical limitation to write, and scribe is essential to write examination on his/ her behalf, from Chief Medical Officer/ Civil Surgeon/ Medical Superintendent of a Government Health Care Institution in the prescribed Proforma at Annexure-IA. Also, the requisite certificate (Annexure-IA/Disability Certificate) is required to be uploaded while filling Application form. The genuineness of PwBD certificate submitted by the candidates in Annexure-IA may be verified by the Commission at any stage.  
9.3.	Candidates will have the discretion of opting for his/her own scribe or seeking the facility of scribe provided by the Commission. The appropriate choice thereof will have to be indicated by such candidates while filing-up the online application form. 
  The facility of scribe will also be provided to PwD candidates having disability less than 40% and having difficulty in writing in terms of OM No. 29-6/2019-DD-III dated 10.08.2022 of Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. This facility will be provided on production of a certificate in Annexure-IIA and Annexure-IIB. The requisite certificate (Annexure-IIA and Annexure-IIB/Disability Certificate) will be required to be uploaded while filling the application form. The genuineness of PwBD certificate submitted by the candidates in Annexure-IIA and AnnexureIIB may be verified by the Commission at any stage. 
9.4.	If a PwBD/PwD candidate opts for his/her own scribe, the following points may be noted:- 
a)	A person shall be allowed to function as a scribe only after completing his/her One Time Registration (OTR) and Aadhaar authentication on the website of Commission. In case the Candidate’s Scribe is not Aadhaar authenticated, the Commission will provide the Scribe to the candidate.  
b)	A scribe shall not give assistance to more than one candidate in the same examination.  
c)	A candidate applying for the examination cannot act as a scribe for another candidate in the same examination.  
d)	The qualification of the scribe shall be one step below the qualification of the candidate taking the examination. 
e)	Candidates must ensure that the information furnished in respect of the scribe is correct. If at any stage during or after the examination, it is found that a candidate (PwBD/PwD) has availed the facility of scribe and the scribe is found to be an impersonator and / or any information furnished by the scribe or the candidate is found to be false/incorrect, then the candidate shall be held liable for the same and candidature of such candidate (PwBD/PwD) shall be cancelled forthwith. 
(f) Candidates are also required to ensure that the scribes engaged by them are not appearing in the list of debarred persons available on the website of Commission (https://ssc.gov.in). Therefore, the candidates are advised to carefully go through the list of debarred persons available on the website of Commission/ Regional office(s). 
	 	 Any violation of above conditions will invite cancellation of the candidature, debarment 
of the candidate as well as the scribe as per extant rules, relevant action against the scribe and the criminal action, if so required. 
9.5.	The procedure for registration of a scribe and giving option for the same is given hereunder:- 
(a)	Before a candidate can choose a person to act as his/her scribe, the person (scribe) shall be required to complete the One Time Registration (OTR) on the website of Commission and must be Aadhaar authenticated. The OTR number generated on the scribe’s mobile number during the registration will be required to be filled up by the candidate so as to choose the person as his/her scribe. 
(b)	When the Admission Certificate is live, the candidate will be required to access the same on the website of Commission and provide OTR number of the scribe. A one-time password will be generated and sent to the registered mobile number of the scribe. The candidate will need to get OTP from the scribe and enter the same in the appropriate field on the portal. Requisite arrangement need to be ensured by the candidate and the scribe so that the process of opting for own scribe at the time of Admission Certificate generation goes smoothly. 
(c)	After completing the procedure, the Admission Certificate of the candidate as well as Entry Pass of the scribe will be generated and this can be downloaded by the candidate. 
(d)	In case at the time of generation of the Admission Certificate, the candidate does not wish to go for own scribe despite having opted for the same in application form, the candidate can choose to be assisted by a scribe provided by the Commission. After making such a choice the candidate can download the Admission Certificate. Facility of scribe will be provided to the candidate by the Commission at the time of examination. 
(e)	In case the scribe chosen by the candidate, whose entry pass has also been generated, does not turn up during the time of examination to assist the candidate due to any contingency, the Commission will provide the scribe at the time of examination. 
9.6.	The candidates with benchmark disabilities opting for own scribe shall be required to submit details of the own scribe during the period when Exam Date, City & Venue Intimation is live on the website of Commission. In addition, the scribe has to produce a valid ID proof (as per list given at Para-16.8) in original at the time of examination. A photocopy of the ID proof of the scribe signed by the candidate as well as the scribe will be submitted along with proforma at Annexure-IB. In case, subsequently it is found that the qualification of the scribe is not as declared by the candidate, then the candidate shall forfeit his/ her right to the post and claims relating thereto. 
9.7.	The person selected as scribe should not be a candidate of this examination. If a candidate is found to assisting another PwD/PwBD candidate as scribe in examination, the candidatures of both the candidates will be cancelled. 
9.8.	A compensatory time of 20 minutes per hour of examination will be provided to a candidate who is allowed to use of scribe in terms of Paras 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 above. 
9.9.	The candidates referred to at Paras 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 above, who are allowed use of scribe but do not avail the facility of scribes will also be given the compensatory time of 20 minutes per hour of examination. 
9.10.	The PwD / PwBD candidates, who have availed the facility of Scribe / Passage Reader and/or compensatory time, must produce relevant documents for eligibility of scribe/compensatory time, during the conduct of computer based examination, and/or as and when called for by the Commission and at the time of Documents Verification. Failure to produce such supporting documents will lead to cancellation of their candidature for the examination. 
9.11.	No attendant other than the scribe registered for eligible candidates will be allowed inside the examination hall. 
9.12.	One eyed candidates and partially blind candidates, who are able to read the normal Question 
Paper set with or without magnifying glass and who wish to write/indicate the answer with the 
help of Magnifying Glass, will be allowed to use the same in the Examination Hall and he will not be entitled to use a Scribe. Such candidates will have to bring their own Magnifying Glass to the Examination Hall. 
10.	Crucial date for Essential Qualification (EQ) and Age Limit: 
10.1.	Essential Qualifications (EQs) and Age Limit for each category of Post, as per requirement of the concerned User Departments/Ministries, are mentioned in the details/description of the post(s) as indicated in Annexure-III of this Notice. 
10.2.	The Crucial date for determining of the age-limit will be 01-01-2026 and for possession of Essential Qualifications (EQs)/Experience will be as on closing date i.e. 04.05.2026. 
10.3.	Before applying for the post(s), the candidates must ensure that they possess all the Essential Qualifications including Experience wherever it is prescribed as Essential Qualification and also meet the age-limit as on the crucial date mentioned in Para 10.2 above. 
10.4.	The posts where experience is required, such experience must be acquired by the candidates after completing the educational qualification as specified for the concerned post. Further, internship, training, research experience, etc. gained in the course of acquiring an educational qualification will not be counted as experience even though the same was acquired after completion of his/her educational qualification. 
10.5.	For the posts where experience in a particular field/discipline for a specified period has been indicated as an Essential Qualification, the applicants must fill the relevant column of the online Application Form, and also shall upload self-attested copy of the relevant certificates in support of their claim of possession of Experience in that relevant field/discipline from the Competent Authority as and when called for by the Commission/User Department after the conduct of Computer Based Examination or during Document Verification failing which their candidature shall be rejected. 
10.6.	The selection will be strictly as per provisions contained in Recruitment Rules of the post. It may also be noted that Equivalence will not be allowed, unless it is stipulated in the Essential Qualifications (EQs) prescribed for any category of post in the Notice. In case Equivalence is allowed in Recruitment Rules of a post, it is the responsibility of the candidates to submit necessary Documents/Certificates (Order/Letter with Number and Date) in support of equivalence qualification, issued by the Government of India/State Government or by the Competent Authority, as mentioned in the post details against a particular category of post in the notice, from which he/she has obtained the Educational Qualification, failing which his/ her application shall be rejected summarily.   
10.7.	In respect of Post(s) requiring proficiency in specific language as an essential qualification, the applicant must have studied that language up to Matriculation level and, in the event of relevant language is not taught as a subject in Matriculation, the relevant language must be the mothertongue of the applicant. 
10.8.	Ministry of Human Resource Development’s Notification dated 10.06.2015 stipulates that all degree/diploma/certificates awarded through Open and Distance Learning mode of education by the Universities established by an act of Parliament or State Legislature, the Institutions Deemed to be Universities under Section-3 of the University Grants Commission Act 1956, and Institutions of National Importance declared by an act of Parliament stand automatically recognized for the purpose of employment to posts and services under Central Government, provided they have been approved by University Grants Commission. Accordingly, unless such Degrees are recognized for the relevant period when the candidates acquired the qualification, they will not be accepted for the purpose of Educational Qualification. In case the candidates possessing such degree/diploma/certificates awarded through Open and Distance Learning mode of education, such candidates shall also produce approval given to the University concerned by the Distance Education Bureau and/or University Grants Commission for the relevant period, at the time of Document Verification. 
 
10.9.	In terms of University Grants Commission (Open and Distance Learning) Regulations, 2017 (published in Part-III, Section-(8)(v) of Official Gazette on 23-06-2017), the programmes in Engineering, Medicine, Dental, Nursing, Pharmacy, Architecture and Physiotherapy etc. are not permitted to be offered under Open and Distance Learning mode. However, B. Tech. Degree/Diploma in Engineering awarded by IGNOU to the students, who were enrolled up to the academic Year 2009-10, shall be treated as valid, wherever applicable. 
10.10.	All the candidates who are called for documents verification will be required to produce the relevant Certificates such as Mark sheets for all years/semesters of Graduation/ Provisional Certificate/ Degree of Graduation in original as proof of having acquired the minimum educational qualification on or before the cut-off date, failing which the candidature of such candidates will be cancelled by the Commission. The candidates who are able to prove, by documentary evidence, that the result of qualifying examination was declared on or before the cut-off date and he has been declared passed, will be considered to meet the educational qualification. It is reiterated that the result of requisite educational qualification must have been declared by the Institute/University by the specified date. Mere processing of the result by the University/ Institute by the cut-off date does not fulfill the EQ requirement. 
 
11.	How to apply: 
11.1.	The candidates will have to apply for each category of post separately and also pay fee for each category of post. 
11.2.	The applications must be submitted only in online mode either at the website of SSC(HQ) (https://ssc.gov.in) or through mySSC mobile application (which can be downloaded from Google Play Store). For the detailed instructions thereon, please refer to Annexure-IV and Annexure-V of this Notice as well as the Notice dated 02.06.2025 relating to mobile app. 
as available on the website of the Commission. 
11.3.	The Last date for submission of online applications is 04.05.2026 (Up to 2300 Hrs.). 
11.4.	The candidates are advised in their own interest to submit online applications much before the closing date and not to wait till the last date to avoid the possibility of disconnection/inability or failure to login to the SSC website on account of heavy load on the website during closing days. 
11.5.	All the candidates, who wish to apply in response to this Notice of Examination and have not generated their One-Time Registration (OTR) on the new website of Commission (https://ssc.gov.in), will be required to generate New OTR as the earlier OTR generated on old website (https://ssc.nic.in) will not be functional on the new website. Subsequent to OTR generation, the candidates can proceed to fill the application for this examination. Once an OTR has been generated on the new website, it will continue to remain valid for all the examinations which will be notified on new website. The detailed instructions for generating OTR have been given in Annexure-IV to this Notice. 
11.6.	The candidates are advised to opt for Aadhaar Based Authentication, in terms of Aadhaar Policy as published on the website of the Commission, while completing their OTR process. The application(s) of the Candidates who opt for Aadhaar Authentication will not be rejected on the ground that photograph and/or signature uploaded by the candidate are not as per prescribed standards. Such candidates will not be required to produce recent colour photographs, original valid Photo-Identity proof for admission to the examination venue at the time of Computer Based Examination.    
11.7.	The candidates are not required to have a pre-existing photograph of himself / herself for submitting the online application. The application module has been so designed to capture real-time photograph of the candidate while filling up the application form. The candidate will be required to stand/sit before the camera when prompted by the application module and to scrupulously observe the following instructions while capturing the photograph:- 
 
(a)	Find a place with good light and plain background. 
(b)	Ensure the camera is at eye level before taking the photograph. 
(c)	Position himself/herself directly in front of the camera lens and look straight ahead. 
(d)	Ensure that his/her face is fully inside the prescribed area delineated by the camera and that it is neither too close nor too far. It should cover the area fully and no part of the face should be outside the area delineated by the camera. 
(e)	Candidates shouldn’t wear a cap, mask or glasses/spectacles while capturing the photo. 
11.8.	The appearance of a candidate, while appearing for the examination, should be as per the photograph in application form. The candidate should ensure that the photograph captured is clear, without cap or spectacles, and have a full frontal view. The applications with photographs not in accordance with the instructions are liable to be rejected. In no case should the candidate capture the photograph of his/her pre-existing photograph. All such applications where the photograph of his/her pre-existing photograph is captured will be rejected summarily. However, the application of candidates submitted through Aadhaar Based Authentication process will not be rejected on the aforesaid grounds. 
11.9.	The candidates must ensure that his/her photograph is uploaded as per the instructions before submitting the application form. In the event of photograph is not uploaded in the prescribed format/size, such application/candidature will be rejected or cancelled. However, the rejection on aforesaid grounds will not be applicable to the candidates who have used Aadhaar Based Authentication process for applying. 
11.10.	Candidates are required to upload their signature duly scanned in JPEG/JPG format (10 to 20 KB). The image dimension of signature should be about 6.0 cm (Width) x 2.0 cm (Height). Applications with inappropriate photographs or blurred/miniature signatures, not meeting with the prescribed requirement, will be rejected summarily. However, the application of the candidates submitted using Aadhaar Based Authentication process will not be rejected on the aforesaid grounds. 
11.11.	The Commission does not accept any responsibility towards the candidates not being able to submit their application within the last date on account of any reasons beyond the control of the Commission. 
11.12.	Before submission of the online application(s), the candidates must go through the Preview option to ensure that they have furnished correct information/details in each field of the application form. They should also check that photograph and signature are meeting with the prescribed requirements. The candidates are hereby advised to keep a hard copy of the application(s) submitted. 
11.13.	The candidates should apply only once for one category of post. 
11.14.	The information furnished by the candidates in their application(s) will be verified by the 
User Department/Commission with reference to original documents during the Document Verification. If it is found during verification of documents that any information furnished by the candidate in online applications is wrong/false, his/her candidature will be rejected forthwith. The candidates should ensure that they have furnished correct information in the application form. 
12.	Application Fee: 
12.1.	Fee payable is Rs. 100/- (Rupees One Hundred only). 
12.2.	Fee can be paid online only through BHIM UPI, Net Banking or by using Visa, Master, Maestro Card, or by RuPay Credit or Debit Card. 
 
12.3.	The women candidates and the candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) and the Ex-Servicemen (ESM) eligible for reservation are exempted from payment of fee. 
12.4.	Online fee can be paid by the candidates up to 05.05.2026 (Up to 2300 Hrs.). 
12.5.	The applications received without prescribed fee shall not be considered and summarily rejected. No representation against such rejection will be entertained. The fee once paid shall not be refunded under any circumstances nor will it be adjusted against any other examination or selection. 
12.6.	The candidates who are not exempted from fee payment must ensure that their online fee payment has been successfully made to the Commission/SSC. If the fee is not received by SSC, the status of application form will be reflected as ‘Incomplete’ and this information is printed on the top of the Application Form printout. Further, the status of fee payment can be verified through the ‘Payment Status’ link provided in the candidate’s login screen. Such applications which remain incomplete due to non-receipt of fee applicable will be summarily rejected and no request for consideration of such applications as well as for fee payment after the period specified in the Notice of Examination shall be entertained. 
12.7.	The fee once paid shall not be refunded under any circumstances nor will it be adjusted against any other examination or selection. The fee should be paid separately for each category of post applied. 
12.8.	In the event of cancellation of post(s), the fee paid against the post cancelled will not be refunded or adjusted against any other examination or selection conducted by SSC. 
13.	Window for Application Form Correction [11.05.2026 to 13.05.2026 (Up to 2300 Hrs.)] 
13.1.	After the closing date for receipt of online applications, the Commission will provide a period of 03 days to enable candidates to correct/modify online application parameters, wherein candidates will be allowed to re-submit their application after making the correction/modification/changes as per their requirement. 
13.2.	A candidate will be allowed to make correction/modification and to re-submit the application two times during ‘Window for Application Form Correction’ i.e. if he/she has made mistake(s) in the updated application also, he/she will be allowed to re-submit one more modified/corrected application after making requisite correction/modification. No more corrections in the application form will be allowed under any circumstances. 
13.3.	Only those candidates will be allowed to make corrections/modifications in the application form, whose completed online applications along-with payment of requisite fee, have been received by the Commission within the specified period. 
13.4.	Only the latest modified/corrected application will be treated as the valid one and all the previous application(s) submitted by such candidates will be ignored.    
13.5.	The Commission will levy a uniform charge of ₹ 200/- (Rupees Two Hundred only) for making correction and re-submitting the modified/corrected application for the first time, and thereafter, ₹500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only) for making the correction and resubmitting the modified/ corrected application for the second time. The prescribed correction charges will be applicable to all candidates irrespective of their Gender/Categories. 
13.6.	The correction charges can be paid by online mode only through BHIM UPI, Net Banking or by using Visa, Master, Maestro Card, or by RuPay Credit or Debit Card. 
 
13.7.	The correction charges once paid shall not be refunded under any circumstances nor will it be adjusted against any other examination or selection. 
13.8.	Before submission of the corrected application, the candidates must ensure that they have filled correct details in each field of the application form. After the expiry of ‘Window for Application Form Correction’, no change/correction/modification will be allowed to the candidates under any circumstances. The requests received for the purpose in any form like Post, e-Mail, By-hand, etc. shall not be entertained by the Commission and it will be summarily rejected. 
14.	Centre(s) of Computer Based Examination (CBE):- 
14.1.	The details of Nine Regional Offices of Staff Selection Commission along with Examination Centres (tentative) located under their jurisdiction are indicated hereunder:- 
Sl. 
No. 	Name of Examination Centre(s) and 
Centre Code 	Regional Office of 
SSC and States/ 
UTs under their jurisdiction 	Address of the Regional Offices and Website 
1 	Bhagalpur (3201), Gaya (3203), 
Muzaffarpur (3205), Patna (3206), Agra 
(3001), Prayagraj (3003), Bareilly (3005), 
Gorakhpur (3007), Jhansi (3008), Kanpur (3009), Lucknow (3010), Meerut (3011), 
Varanasi (3013), Darbhanga (3202), 
Chapra (3208), Purnea (3209), Saharsa (3210), Munger (3211) 	Central Region (CR) /
Bihar and Uttar 
Pradesh 	Regional Director (CR), 
Staff Selection 
 Commission, 34-A, Mahatma Gandhi Marg, 
Civil lines, Kendriya Sadan, Prayagraj – 211001. 
(https://ssccr.gov.in) 
2 	Sri Vijaya Puram (4802), Ranchi (4205), 
Dhanbad (4206), Jamshedpur (4207), 
Suri (4416), Burdwan (4422), Durgapur 
(4426), Balasore (4601), Berhampore 
(4602), Bhubaneswar (4604), Cuttack 
(4605), Sambalpur (4609), Rourkela 
(4610), Dhenkanal (4611), Gangtok 
(4001), Kolkata (4410), Siliguri (4415), Kalyani (4419) 	Eastern Region (ER) 
/ 
Andaman & 
Nicobar Islands, 
Jharkhand, Odisha, 
Sikkim and West Bengal 	Regional Director (ER), 
Staff Selection 
Commission, 1st MSO 
Building, (8th Floor), 
234/4, Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Road, 
Kolkata, West Bengal700020 (www.sscer.org) 
3 	Bengaluru (9001), Belgavi (9002), 
Kalaburagi/Gulbarga (9005), Mangalore 
(9008), Mysore (9009), Shivamogga 
(9010), Hubballi (9011), Udupi (9012), 
Kannur (9202), Kottayam (9205), 
Kozhikode (9206), Thiruvananthapuram 
(9211), Ernakulam (9213), Kollam 
(9210), Thrissur (9212), Kavaratti (9401), Alappuzha(9201), Malappuram (9207) 	Karnataka, Kerala 
Region (KKR)/ 
Lakshadweep, 
Karnataka and Kerala 	Regional Director (KKR), 
Staff Selection 
Commission, 1st Floor, “E” Wing, Kendriya 
Sadan, Koramangala, 
Bengaluru, Karnataka-
560034 
(www.ssckkr.kar.nic.in) 
4 	Bhopal (6001), Gwalior (6005), Indore 
(6006), Jabalpur (6007), Satna (6014), 
Sagar (6015), Ujjain (6016), Bilaspur 
(6202), Raipur (6204), Durg Bhilai (6205) 	Madhya Pradesh 
Region (MPR)/ 
Chhattisgarh and 
Madhya Pradesh 	Regional Director (MPR), 
Staff Selection 
Commission, 5th Floor 
Investment Building, LIC 
Campus-2, Pandri, Raipur, 
Chhattisgarh-492004 
(www.sscmpr.org) 
5 	Itanagar (5001), Guwahati (Dispur) 
(5105), Dibrugarh (5102), Imphal 
(5501), Shillong (5401), Aizawl (5701), Kohima (5302), Agartala (5601), 
Churachandpur (5502), Ukhrul (5503), Jorhat (5107), Dimapur (5301) 	North Eastern 
Region (NER)/ 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Assam, Manipur, 
Meghalaya, 
Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura. 	Regional Director (NER), 
Staff Selection 
Commission, Housefed 
Complex, Last Gate, Beltola Basistha Road, P. 
O. Assam Sachivalaya, Dispur, Guwahati, 
Assam781006 
(www.sscner.org.in) 
6 	Delhi (2201), Bikaner (2404), Jaipur 
(2405), Udaipur (2409), Sikar (2411), Dehradun (2002), Haldwani (2003), Roorkee (2006). 	Northern Region 
(NR)/ 
Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand 	Regional Director (NR), Staff Selection 
Commission, Block No. 
12, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003 
(https://sscnr.nic.in) 
7 	Chandigarh/ Mohali (1601), Hamirpur 
(1202), Shimla (1203), Jammu (1004), Samba (1010), Srinagar(J&K) (1007), 
Bathinda (1401), Amritsar (1404), Jalandhar (1402), Patiala (1403), Ludhiana (1405). 	North Western 
Region (NWR)/ 
Chandigarh, 
Haryana, Himachal 
Pradesh, Jammu and 
Kashmir, Ladakh and Punjab 	Regional Director (NWR), Staff Selection 
Commission, Block No. 3, 
Ground Floor, Kendriya 
Sadan, Sector-9, 
Chandigarh160009 
(www.sscnwr.org) 
8 	Guntur (8001), Kakinada (8009), 
Kurnool (8003), Nellore (8010), Ongole 
(8014), Rajahmundry (8004), Tirupathi 
(8006), Vijayawada (8008), 
Visakhapatnam (8007), Puducherry 
(8401), Chennai (8201), Coimbatore 
(8202), Madurai (8204), Salem (8205), Tiruchirappalli (8206), Tirunelveli 
(8207), Vellore (8208), Hyderabad 
(8601), Karimnagar (8604), Warangal 
(8603), Krishnagiri (8209), Srikakulam 
(8015), Eluru (8016), Theni (8211), Siddipet(8605)  	Southern Region 
(SR)/ Andhra 
Pradesh, 
Puducherry, Tamil 
Nadu and 
Telangana. 	Regional Director (SR), Staff Selection 
Commission, 2nd Floor, 
EVK Sampath Building, 
DPI Campus, College 
Road, Chennai, Tamil 
Nadu-600006 
(www.sscsr.gov.in) 
9 	Ahmedabad (7001), Vadodara (7002), 
Rajkot (7006), Surat (7007), Mehsana 
(7013), Amravati (7201), Kolhapur 
(7203), Chhatrapati Sambhaji Nagar 
(7202), Mumbai (7204), Nagpur (7205), Nashik (7207), Pune (7208), Panaji 
(7801) Jalgaon (7214), Nanded (7206) 	Western Region 
(WR)/ Dadra and 
Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu, 
Goa, Gujarat and Maharashtra 	Regional Director (WR), 
Staff Selection 
Commission, 1st Floor, 
South Wing, Pratishtha 
Bhawan, 101, Maharshi 
Karve Road, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra-400020 
(www.sscwr.net) 
14.2.	A candidate has option to give the preference of three centres (anywhere in the country) for appearing in Computer Based Examination, in the order of priority. No request for change of Centre will be considered later, under any circumstances. Hence, the candidates should select the centers carefully and indicate the same correctly in their online application form.  
14.3.	The candidates may carefully note that the ‘Preference of Examination Centre’ once opted in the very first online application form for any category of post, shall be frozen for all the subsequent applications across Regions, irrespective of the level of post(s).  
14.4.	The Candidates may also note that if ‘Preference of Examination Centre’ is changed in application of any Post Category during correction window, it will also apply uniformly to all the applications for other categories of Posts automatically, and no request for change of Centre will be considered later, under any circumstances. 
14.5.	The Commission will endeavour to accommodate all the candidates in the centre opted by them. However, the Commission reserves the right to add new centre(s) of Examination in addition to the list of centres given at Para 14.1 above or to cancel any centre from the aforesaid list and ask the candidates opting that centre to appear from any another centre. The Commission also reserves the right to divert candidates of a centre to some other centre to take the examination. 
15.	SCHEME OF EXAMINATION: 
15.1.	There will be three separate Computer Based Examinations (CBE) of Objective Type Multiple Choice Question for the posts with minimum Educational Qualification of Matriculation Level, Higher Secondary (10+2) Level, and Graduation & above levels. The details of subjects, marks and number of questions (subject-wise) have been indicated below:- 
Part 	Name of the Subject 	Number of Questions 	Maximum Marks 	Total Duration of Examination
A 	General Intelligence 	25 	50 	60 Minutes (with sectional timer of 15 Minutes for each part) 
(80 minutes (with sectional timer of 15+5=20 minutes for each part) for the candidates eligible for scribes in terms of Para 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 above). 
B 	General Awareness 	25 	50 	
C 	Quantitative Aptitude (Basic Arithmetic Skill) 	25 	50 	
D 	English Language (Basic Knowledge) 	25 	50 	
 
15.2.	There will be negative marking of 0.50 marks for each wrong answer. 
15.3.	Marks scored by the candidates in Computer Based Examination, if conducted in multiple shifts, will be normalized by using the procedure published by the Commission vide Notice No: HQPP001/6/2024-PP dated 02.06.2025 and such normalized scores will be used to determine final merit and cut-off marks.  
15.4.	The Computer Based Examination will be conducted in Hindi and English only. Candidates have to select their Medium (Language) of Computer Based Examination (CBE) at the application stage in Sr. No. 23 of application Form. Candidates’ Responses will be recorded only in the language selected by them in application form. Therefore, all the candidates are advised to select Medium of CBE carefully.  
15.5.	Skill Tests like Typing/Data Entry/Computer Proficiency Test etc. where prescribed in Essential Qualification, will be conducted, which will be of a qualifying nature, unless specified in Post Details and Addendum/Corrigendum, if any, uploaded by the Commission.  
15.6.	The Commission shall have the discretion to fix different minimum qualifying standards in each component of Computer Based Examination (CBE) taking into consideration among others, the category-wise vacancies and category-wise number of candidates. 
15.7.	The Tentative Answer Keys will be placed on the Commission’s website after Computer Based Examination. The candidates may go through the Answer Keys and submit representations, if any, within the time limit given by the Commission through on-line method only on payment of Rs. 50/- per question. The representation against Answer Keys, received within the time limit prescribed by the Commission while uploading Answer Keys, will be scrutinized before finalizing the Answer Keys and the decision of the Commission thereon will be final. No representation against the Answer Keys shall be entertained thereafter. The Final Answer Keys will be used for processing the result of Computer Based Examination and the same will be uploaded on the website of the Commission after the declaration of result of Computer Based Examination. 
15.8.	The Commission has published ‘Guidelines regarding Challenge / Objection Management System’ vide its Notice dated 10.04.2026 on its website. The candidates are advised to go through the guidelines carefully as these will be applicable for this Examination. 
15.9.	Indicative Syllabus for Computer Based Examination (CBE): 
 
15.9.1.	Matriculation level 
(A)	General Intelligence: The test paper will consist of questions of non-verbal type. The test will include questions on similarities and differences, space visualization, problem solving, analysis, judgment, decision making, visual memory, relationship concepts, discriminating observations, figure classification, arithmetical number series, non-verbal series etc. It will also include questions designed to test the candidate’s abilities to deal with abstract ideas and symbols and their relationship, arithmetical computation and other analytical functions. 
(B)	General Awareness: Questions will be designed to test the candidate’s general awareness of environment and its application to the society. The questions will also be designed to test the knowledge of current affairs/events and of such matters of everyday observations and experience in their scientific aspects as may be expected of an educated person. The test will also include questions relating to India & its neighbouring countries especially pertaining to History, Culture, Geography, Sports, Economic scene, General Polity including Indian Constitution, and Scientific Research etc. The questions will be of such standard that they do not require special study of any discipline. 
(C)	Quantitative Aptitude: This paper will include questions on problems relating to Number Systems, Computation of Whole Numbers, Decimals & Fractions and relationship between Numbers, Fundamental arithmetical operations, Percentages, Ratio & Proportion, Averages, Interest, Profit & Loss, Discount, use of Tables & Graphs, Mensuration, Time & Distance, Ratio & Time and Time & Work, etc. 
(D)	English Language: The test paper will consists of questions designed to test the candidate’s understanding of Basics of English Language, its vocabulary, grammar, sentence structure, synonyms, antonyms & its correct usage etc. and also their writing ability would be tested. 
15.9.2.	Higher Secondary (10+2) level 
(A) General Intelligence: The test paper would consists of questions of both Non-verbal and 
Verbal type. The test will include questions on Semantic Analogy, Symbolic operations, 
Symbolic/Number Analogy, Trends, Figural Analogy, Venn Diagrams, Space Orientation, 
Semantic Classification, Symbolic/Number Classification, Drawing inferences, Figural 
Classification, Punched hole/pattern - folding & unfolding, Semantic Series, Figural Pattern 
– folding & completion, Number Series, Embedded figures, Figural Series, Word Building, Critical Thinking, Problem Solving, Emotional Intelligence, Social Intelligence, Coding and de-coding, Numerical operations, Other sub-topics, if any. 
(B)	General Awareness: The test paper would consist of questions to test the candidate’s general awareness of environment and its application to the society. The questions will be designed to test knowledge of current affairs/events and of such matters of everyday observation and experience in their scientific aspect as may be expected of an educated person. The test will also include questions relating to India and its neighbouring countries especially pertaining to History, Culture, Geography, Economic Scene, General polity and scientific research. 
(C)	Quantitative Aptitude: The test paper will consist of questions on Arithmetic, Number Systems, Computation of Whole Number, Decimal and Fractions, Relationship between numbers, Fundamental Arithmetical Operations - Percentage, Ratio & Proportion, Square roots, Averages, Profit and Loss, Discount, Interest (Simple and Compound), Partnership Business, Mixture & Allegation, Time & distance, and Time & work; Algebra - Basic algebraic identities of School Algebra & Elementary surds (simple problems) and Graphs of Linear Equations; Geometry - Familiarity with elementary geometric figures and facts, Triangle and its various kinds of center, Congruence and similarity of triangles, Circle and 
its chords, tangents, angles subtended by chords of a circle, common tangents to two or more circles; Mensuration - Triangle, Quadrilaterals, Regular Polygons, Circle, Right Prism, Right Circular Cone, Right Circular Cylinder, Sphere, Hemispheres, Rectangular, Parallel piped, Regular Right Pyramid with triangular or square base; Trigonometry - Trigonometry, Trigonometric ratios, Complementary angles, Height and distances (simple problems only), Standard Identities etc.; Statistical Charts: Use of Tables and Graphs, Histogram, Frequency polygon, Bar-diagram, Pie-chart etc. 
(D)	English Language: The test paper will consist of questions relating to Spot the Error, Fill in the blanks, Synonyms/ Homonyms, Antonyms, Spellings/ Detecting Mis-spelt words, Idioms & Phrases, One word substitution, Improvement of Sentences, Active / Passive Voice of Verbs, Conversion into Direct / Indirect narration, Shuffling of Sentence parts, Shuffling of Sentences in a passage, Cloze Passage, Comprehension Passage etc. 
15.9.3.	Graduation & above level: 
(A)	General Intelligence: The test paper would include the questions of both Verbal and Nonverbal type. It would consist of questions on analogies, similarities and differences, space visualization, spatial orientation, problem solving, analysis, judgment, decision making, visual memory, discrimination, observation, relationship concepts, arithmetical reasoning and figural classification, arithmetic number series, non-verbal series, coding & decoding, statement conclusion, syllogistic reasoning etc. The topics includes Semantic Analogy, Symbolic/Number Analogy, Figural Analogy, Semantic classification, Symbolic/Number Classification, Figural Classification, Semantic Series, Number Series, Figural Series, 
Problem Solving, Word Building, Coding and Decoding, Numerical Operations, symbolic Operations, Trends, Space Orientation, Space Visualization, Venn Diagrams, Drawing inferences, Punched hole / pattern – folding & Unfolding, Figural Pattern – folding and completion, Indexing, Address matching, Date & city matching, Classification of Centre codes/roll numbers, Small & Capital letters/numbers coding, decoding and classification, Embedded Figures, Critical thinking, Emotional Intelligence, Social Intelligence, Other subtopics, if any. 
(B)	General Awareness:- The test paper would be consist of questions to test the candidate’s general awareness of environment and its application to the society. The questions will be designed to test knowledge of current events and of such matters of every day observations and experience in their scientific aspect as may be expected of any educated person. The test will also include questions relating to India & its neighbouring countries especially relating to History, Culture, Geography, Economic Scene, General Polity & Scientific Research. 
(C)	Quantitative Aptitude: The questions will be designed to test the ability of appropriate use of numbers and number sense of the candidate. The scope of the test will be computation of whole numbers, decimals, fractions and relationships between numbers, Percentage, Ratio & Proportion, Square roots, Averages, Interest, Discount, Partnership Business, Profit and Loss, 
Mixture & Allegation, Time & distance, Time & Work, Basic algebraic identities of School Algebra and Elementary surds, Graphs of Linear Equations, Triangle and its various kinds of Centre, Congruence and similarity of triangles; Circle and its chords, tangents, angles subtended by chords of a circle, common tangents to two or more circles, Triangle, Quadrilaterals, Regular Polygons, Circle, Right Prism, Right Circular Cone, Right Circular Cylinder, Sphere, Hemispheres, Rectangular Parallelepiped, Regular Right Pyramid with triangular or square base, Trigonometric ratio, Degree and Radian Measures, Standard Identities, Complementary angles, Heights and Distances, Histogram, Frequency polygon, Bar diagram and Pie chart. 
(D)	English Language: The questions of test paper would be designed to test the Candidates’ ability to understand the correct English, basic comprehension and their writing ability etc. 
 
 The questions in Part-A, Part-B and Part-D will be of level commensurate with the essential qualification viz. Graduation, whereas the questions in Part-C will be of 10th standard. 
 
 
16.	Admission to the Examination: 
16.1.	All the candidates, who register themselves in response to this advertisement by the closing date and time, and whose applications are found to be in order and are provisionally accepted by the Commission as per the terms and conditions of this Notice of Examination, will be assigned Roll numbers and issued with Admission Certificate for appearing in Computer Based Examination. Subsequently, the qualified candidates will be issued with Admission Certificates/Instructions, for the next stages of the Examinations. 
16.2.	The Commission will not undertake detailed scrutiny of applications for the eligibility and other aspects at the time of Application Submission & Computer Based Examination and, therefore, the candidature will be accepted only provisionally. The candidates are advised to go through the requirements of educational qualification, experience, age, physical and medical standards etc. of the Post-category they wish to apply for and to satisfy themselves that they are eligible for the post(s). The copies of self-attested supporting documents will be sought at the time of scrutiny of documents from shortlisted candidates as per Selection Procedure mentioned in Para-19 and at the time of Document Verification. When scrutiny of documents is undertaken at any stage of the recruitment process, if any claim made in the application is not found substantiated, the candidature will be cancelled and the User Department’s / Commission’s decision shall be final. 
16.3.	Admission Certificates for the Computer Based Examination will be available on the website of the Commission. The candidates will not be issued their Admission Certificate by post/email for CBE. Therefore, the candidates are advised to visit the website of SSC (HQ) regularly for updates and information about the Computer Based Examination. 
16.4.	The Admission Certificate / Call Letter / Communication for Document Verification, will be issued/made available by the User Department concerned (to which the post-category belongs) on their website or by SMS/email/post. Hence, apart from checking the website of the concerned Regional Office regularly, the candidates are also advised to take note of any communication received from the User Departments. 
16.5.	The information about Computer Based Examination indicating Time-table and City / Centre of Examination will be uploaded on the website of Commission about 10 days before the date of examination. If any candidate does not find his/her details on the website of the Commission one week before the date of examination, he/she must immediately contact the Toll Free No of the Commission with proof of having submitted his/her application. Failure to do so will deprive him/her of any claim for consideration. 
16.6.	Candidate must write his/her Registration ID, Roll Number, Registered e-Mail ID and Mobile Number along with his/her name, date of birth and name of the examination, while addressing any communication to the Commission. The communication from the candidate not furnishing these particulars shall not be entertained. 
16.7.	The facility for downloading Admission Certificate will be available about 2 - 3 days before the conduct of Computer Based Examination (CBE) on the website of Commission/HQ. Candidate must bring printout of the Admission Certificate to the Examination Hall. 
16.8.	The candidates, who could not completed Aadhaar Based Authentication, will require to report at the examination center two (02) hours before the scheduled start of examination. In addition to the Admission Certificate, it is mandatory to carry at least two passport size recent colour photographs and Original valid Photo-ID proof having Date of Birth (DoB) as printed on the Admission Certificate, failing which they will not be allowed entry, such as:- 
16.8.1.	Aadhaar Card / Printout of e-Aadhaar, 
16.8.2.	Voter’s ID Card, 
16.8.3.	Driving License, 
16.8.4.	PAN Card, 
16.8.5.	Passport, 
16.8.6.	ID Card issued by School/ College. 
16.8.7.	Employer ID Card (Govt./ PSU/ Private), etc 
16.8.8.	Ex-Serviceman Discharge Book issued by Ministry of Defence. 
16.8.9.	Any other photo bearing valid ID card issued by the Central/State Government. 
 
16.9.	In case Photo Identity Card does not have the date of birth printed on it then the candidate must carry an additional original document (e.g. Matriculation Certificate, Marks Sheet issued by CBSE/ICSE/State Boards only; Birth Certificate, Category Certificate) towards proof of their date of birth (DoB). In the event of mismatch in date of birth mentioned in the Admission Certificate and Photo ID/certificate brought in support of date of birth, the candidate will not be allowed to appear in the examination. However, the aforesaid requirements will not be applicable for the candidates who have undergone Aadhaar Based Authentication. 
16.10.	The candidates of PwD/PwBD category using the facility of scribes in terms of Para - 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 above, shall also be required to carry the required Medical Certificate/ Undertaking/ Photocopy of Scribe’s Photo ID Proof, as specified therein. The candidates without aforesaid noted documents will not be allowed to appear in the examination. 
16.11.	Any other document mentioned in Admission Certificate shall also be carried by the candidates while appearing in the Examination. 
16.12.	Applications with blurred signature will be rejected summarily. The application module has been designed to capture live photograph of the candidate filling up the application form. The candidates should ensure that the photograph captured is clear, without cap or spectacles, and with a full frontal view. Applications with photographs not in accordance with the instructions are liable to be rejected. In no case should the candidate capture the photographs of his / her pre-existing photograph. All such applications where photograph of his/her pre-existing photograph is captured will be rejected. However, the rejection of application due to above reasons will not be applicable for the candidates who have undergone Aadhaar Based Authentication. 
 
17.	DOCUMENT VERIFICATION (DV): 
17.1.	The Document Verification (DV) will be conducted by the User Departments/Organizations concerned (to which the post-category belongs) after shortlisting of the candidates based on Computer Based Examination and Scrutiny of documents submitted by them. 
17.2.	All the candidates qualified for Document Verification are required to appear for Document Verification as per the requirement of User Department to which the Post-category belongs. Hence, no request from the candidates for change of venue of Document Verification will be entertained by the Commission/User Department(s) concerned. 
17.2.	Admission Certificate / Call Letter / Communication for Document Verification (DV) will be issued by the User Department in consultation with the concerned Regional Office to which the post category belongs. Therefore, the candidates are advised to check/visit the website of concerned User Department/Regional Office regularly. 
17.3.	The candidates have to bring two passport size recent colour photographs and one Original Photo ID Proof as listed at Para 16.8 above while appearing for the Document Verification.  
17.4.	At the time of Document Verification, the candidates will have to produce original documents like: 
17.2.1.	Matriculation/ Secondary Certificate. 
17.2.2.	Educational Qualification Certificate, as per the requirement of Post-category applied for. 
17.2.3.	Order/ letter in respect of equivalent Educational Qualifications indicating the Authority (with number and date) under which it has been so treated, towards equivalence clause of Essential Qualifications, if a candidate is claiming a particular qualification as equivalent. 
17.2.4.	Experience Certificate, if required for the post. 
17.2.5.	Caste/ Category Certificate, if belongs to reserved categories. 
17.2.6.	Persons with Disabilities Certificate (PwD) in prescribed format, if applicable. Candidates availing the facility of Scribe and Compensatory time as per Para 9.2 & 9.3 above, have to submit a photocopy of Annexure-IA, Annexure-IIA, Annexure-IIB whichever is applicable. 
17.2.7.	Requisite Certificate for Ex-Servicemen (ESM): 
17.2.7.1.	Serving Defence Personnel Certificate as per Annexure-IX, if applicable. 
17.2.7.2.	Undertaking as per Annexure-IX(A). 
17.2.7.3.	Discharge Certificate, if discharged from Armed Forces, 
17.2.8.	Relevant Certificate if seeking any age relaxation. 
17.2.9.	No Objection Certificate, in case candidate availing age-relaxation as Central Government Civilian Employee (CGCE). 
17.2.10.	In the event of a candidate, who claims change in name after matriculation on marriage or remarriage or divorce etc., the following documents shall be submitted: 
17.2.10.1.	In case of marriage of women: Photocopy of Husband’s passport showing name of spouse or an attested copy of marriage certificate issued by the Registrar of Marriage or an Affidavit from husband and wife along with a  joint photograph duly sworn before the Oath Commissioner; 
17.2.10.2.	In case of re-marriage of women: Divorce Deed/ Death Certificate as the case may be in respect of first spouse; and photocopy of present husband’s passport showing name of spouse or an attested copy of marriage certificate issued by the Registrar of Marriage or an Affidavit from the husband and wife along with joint photograph duly sworn before the Oath Commissioner. 
17.2.10.3.	In case of divorce of women: a certified copy of Divorce Decree and Deed Poll/ Affidavit duly sworn before the Oath Commissioner. 
17.2.10.4.	In other circumstances for change of name for both male and female: Deed Poll / Affidavit duly sworn before the Oath Commissioner and paper cuttings of two leading daily newspapers in original (One daily newspaper should be of the area of applicant’s permanent and present address or the nearby area) and Gazette Notification. 
17.2.11.	Any other document specified in the Admission Certificate for Document Verification. 18.    Abbreviations Used: As per Annexure-XIII 
19.	Selection Procedure: 
19.1	Recruitment to Selection Posts will be made through the Examination in Computer Based Mode consisting of Objective Type Multiple Choice Questions. 
19.2	All candidates who register themselves in response to this advertisement by the closing date and time and whose applications are found to be in order and are provisionally accepted by the Commission as per terms and conditions of this Notice of Examination, will be assigned Roll number(s) and issued with Admission Certificates (AC) for appearing in the Computer Based Examination by the Commission. 
19.3	Applications which have blurred / no signature / miniature signature, fee not received / incomplete application etc. will be rejected summarily. The application module has been designed to capture live photograph of the candidate filling the application form. Candidates should ensure that the photograph captured is clear, without cap or spectacles, 
and with full frontal view. The specimens of acceptable / not acceptable photograph are given in Annexure-XII. In case the photograph captured is not as per acceptable specimen, the candidates are advised to recapture the photograph. The applications with photograph not in accordance with the acceptable specimen are liable to be rejected. However, the applications of the candidates who have completed Aadhaar Based Authentication will not be rejected on the grounds of photograph and signature. The appearance of a candidate in the examination should be as per the photograph in the application form.  
19.4	The candidates who apply for more than one post in the same Region/ apply for different posts in different Regions/ apply for several posts of different levels (Matriculation, Higher 
Secondary (10+2) and Graduation & above) in the same or different Regions are called ‘Common candidates’.   
19.5	Such ‘Common candidates’ will be issued with only one Admission Certificate for one level of Examination by the Commission. For example, a candidate who has applied for three or more categories of posts of three different EQ levels (viz. Matriculation, Higher Secondary (10+2) and Graduation & above), shall be issued with only three Admission Certificates separately [i.e. one Admission Certificate for each EQ level]. 
19.6	Common candidates must appear only once in the examination for one level of post, otherwise, their candidature shall be cancelled. If a candidate has applied for two levels of posts e.g. for Matriculation and for Higher Secondary (10+2), he/ she will have to appear once for each level of examination [i.e. once for Matriculation level Post-categories and once for Higher Secondary (10+2) level Post-categories]. Marks obtained by such common candidates will be used by other Regional Offices for preparing Merit List for that level of post(s) in their respective Regional Offices for the post-categories applied by the candidate. 
19.7	The candidates scoring less than cut-off marks as given below will not be considered for the next stage of recruitment: 
	Unreserved (UR) 	: 	30% 
	OBC / EWS 	: 	25% 
	Other Categories 	: 	20% 
19.8	Depending on the number of vacancies of a particular category of post, the candidates will be shortlisted for the next stage of scrutiny, based on the score and merit of candidates in the Computer Based Examination (CBE) in the following ratio :- 
(a)	In the ratio of 1:30, for up to 05 vacancies for any category of posts. 
(b)	In the ratio of 1:15, for more than 05 vacancies for any category of posts, subject to a minimum 150. 
(c)	For vacancies reserved for PwBD/PwBDs-Others/ESMs Candidates, all the PwBD/ PwBDs-others/ESMs candidates who are qualifying with minimum-cutoff criteria are to be shortlisted for scrutiny process. 
19.9	The candidates who are shortlisted for the next stage of scrutiny will be required to upload self-attested copies of all the supporting documents in respect of Educational Qualification (EQ), Experience, Category, Age, Age-relaxation, etc. (as applicable) on the website of Commission after the result of Computer Based Examination. Besides, the PwD candidates who have availed the facility of Scribe and Compensatory time as per Para 9.2 & 9.3 have to upload copy of Annexure-IA, Annexure-IIA, Annexure-IIB whichever is applicable.  
19.10	Scrutiny of Documents/Document Verification will be carried out by the User Department to which the post belongs, in consultation with the concerned Regional Office(s) of SSC. 
 
 
19.11	Skill Test, wherever prescribed for any category of post(s) will be conducted from amongst the candidates who upload the relevant documents and the same are found in order / the candidate is eligible at Scrutiny stage, by the concerned User Department/Regional Offices of the Commission.  
19.12	All the qualified candidates found clear/eligible at the Scrutiny Stage for a particular category of post, will be called for Document Verification by the User Department concerned to which the category of post belongs. 
19.13	The information furnished by the candidates in their applications form will be verified by the User Department with their original documents after the Computer Based Examination. During documents verification, if it is found that any information furnished by the candidate in the application form is wrong or incomplete, his/ her candidature will be rejected forthwith. No appeal or representation against such rejection of candidature will be entertained. Candidates should ensure that they have furnished correct information in the application form. 
19.14	The Scores/Marks of the selected candidates will only be disclosed / made available on the website of concerned Regional Offices at the time of declaration of Final Result for the particular category of post. The marks of all other candidates who appeared in the Computer Based Examination (CBE) for any category of post shall only be made available on the website of the Commission after declaration of the entire results of all categories of posts advertised under the Notice of Phase-XIV/2026/Selection Posts Examination and after the currency of the last of the Reserve Lists maintained for a post gets exhausted. 
19.15	The candidates of SC, ST, OBC, ESM, EWS & PwBD category, who are selected on their own merit without relaxed standards, will not be adjusted against the reserved share of vacancies. Such candidates will be accommodated against the unreserved vacancies in the post as per their position in the overall merit or the vacancies earmarked for their category, whichever is advantageous to them. The reserved vacancies will be filled up separately from amongst the eligible candidates of SC, ST, OBC, ESM, EWS and PwBD category. 
19.16	Candidates of SC, ST, OBC, ESM, EWS & PwBD category, who qualify on the basis of relaxed standards viz. age limit, experience or qualifications, permitted number of chances, extended zone of consideration, etc., irrespective of their merit position, is to be counted against reserved vacancies and not against unreserved vacancies. In so far as the cases of Exserviceman (ESM) are concerned, the deduction of military service period rendered from the age of ex-servicemen is permissible against reserved or unreserved posts and such exemption will not be termed as relaxed standards in regard to age. Similarly, for PwBD candidates, the relaxation of 10 years in upper age limit will not be termed as relaxed standards. 
19.17	A candidate with benchmark disability, who is selected on the basis of his/her own merit, can be appointed against an unreserved vacancy provided the post is identified suitable for persons with benchmark disability of relevant category. 
19.18	The success in examination confers no right of appointment unless Government is satisfied after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the service/post. 
19.19	The candidates applying for the examination should ensure that they fulfill all the eligibility conditions for admission to the examination. Their admission at all stages of examination will be purely provisional, subject to their satisfying the prescribed eligibility conditions. If, on verification, at any time before or after the Computer Based examination, it is found that they do not fulfill any of the eligibility conditions, their candidature to the examination will be cancelled. 
 
19.20	Candidates selected for appointment are liable to serve anywhere in India i.e. all these posts carry All India Service Liability (AISL). 
19.21	The candidates on final selection may be allotted a State/ UT/ Zone by the concerned User Ministry/ Department/ Office. Such candidates may be required to acquire the proficiency in local language of the allotted State/ UT/ Zone for confirmation of the candidates to the allotted posts by the User Ministry/ Department/Office concerned. 
20.	Resolution of Tie-Cases: 
   In the event of a tie in the Total Score of candidates, such cases will be resolved by applying the following criteria, one after another, till the tie is resolved: 
(a)	Total Normalized Marks in Computer Based Examination. 
(b)	Marks in Part-A of Computer Based Examination. (c) Marks in Part-B of Computer Based Examination. (d) Marks in Part-C of Computer Based Examination 
(e)	Date of Birth, with older candidates placed higher. 
(f)	Alphabetical order in which the names of the candidates appear. 
21.	REASONS FOR REJECTION/ CANCELLATION OF APPLICATION/ CANDIDATURE: 
21.1	Applications/ candidature of applicants are liable to be cancelled/ rejected at any stage of the recruitment process in the event of all or any of the following: 
21.1.1.	Application being incomplete. 
21.1.2.	Any variation in the signature. 
21.1.3.	Application with photograph not in accordance with the specimen in Annexure-XII and those with blurred signature. 
21.1.4.	Non-payment of Examination Fees by the Non-exempted candidates. 
21.1.5.	Examination Fee not paid as per the instructions/mode of payment. 
21.1.6.	Under-aged /over aged candidates. 
21.1.7.	Non-uploading of self-attested legible copies of all the relevant certificates/ documents issued by the competent authority, in support of information given in online application forms about their Educational qualifications, Experiences, Percentage of marks obtained, Proof of age etc., as and when called for by the Commission after conduct of Computer Based Examination. 
21.1.8.	Not having Age and requisite educational qualification, experience as on crucial date. 
21.1.9.	Incorrect information or misrepresentation or suppression of material facts. 
21.1.10.	For PwBD/PwD candidates – if education level of his/her own scribe is declared false or found equal/ higher than the candidate himself/herself. 
21.1.11.	On carrying prohibitive items to the Examination premises/Hall. 
21.1.12.	Non-production of original certificates at the time of Documents Verification. 
21.1.13.	Indulging in any of the misconduct listed at Para-22 of the Notice of the Examination. 
21.1.14.	Appearing twice in Computer Based Examination (CBE) of the same level of Education Qualification (i.e. Matriculation, Higher Secondary and Graduation & above levels). 
21.1.15.	Candidates who are found in an inebriated condition in the Examination Hall. 
21.1.16.	Any other irregularity. 
 
 
 
22.	ACTION AGAINST THE CANDIDATES FOUND GUILTY OF MISCONDUCT(S): 
22.1	The Commission undertakes comprehensive post-examination analysis to ensure the integrity and fairness of the examination process. This includes detailed scrutiny through log analysis, photograph and biometric verification, and CCTV footage review. Candidates found to be involved in any form of malpractice or unfair means during any stage of the examination are liable to strict action, including cancellation of the candidature and debarment from future examinations, as per the policy of the Commission. 
22.2	In the event of candidates found indulging in any of the malpractices listed below at any stage during the conduct of examination, their candidature for this examination will be cancelled and they will be debarred from the examinations of the Commission for the period mentioned below:  
Sl. 
No. 	Details of Malpractice 	Debarment Period 
1. 	Taking away any examination related material such as Rough sheets, Commission copy of admission certificate etc. from the examination hall or passing it on to unauthorized persons during the conduct of examination. 	01 - 02 Years 
2. 	Leaving the examination venue before completion of the due procedure for exit. 	01 Year 
3. 	Misbehaving, Intimidating or Threatening in any manner with the examination functionaries i.e. Supervisor, Invigilator, Security Guard or Commission’s Representatives etc. 	02 - 03 Years 
4. 	Obstruct the conduct of examination/instigate other candidates not to take the examination. 	03 Years 
5. 	Deliberately making statements which are incorrect or false/suppressing material information / submitting fabricated documents. 	01 - 03 Years 
6. 	Obtaining support/influence for his candidature by any irregular or improper means in connection with his candidature. 	03 Years 
7. 	Possession of Mobile Phone, Bluetooth devices, Wireless devices, Spy Cameras or any other electronic gadgets in the examination hall. 	03 - 05 Years 
8. 	Appearing or attempting in the same examination more than once in contravention of the rules. 	02 - 05 Years 
9. 	A candidate who is also working as an examination functionary in the same examination. 	03 Year 
10. 	Deliberately damaging the examination related infrastructure/ equipment. 	01 – 03 years 
11. 	Appearing or attempting in the Examination with forged Admit Card, Identity proof, etc. 	03 – 05 years 
12. 	Possession of any fire arms/ weapons or threatening/ intimidating examination functionaries with weapons/ fire arms or assault, use of force, causing bodily harm in any manner to the examination  functionaries’ like Supervisor, Invigilator, Security Guard or Commission’s Representatives etc. 	07 Years 
13. 	Using unfair means in the examination hall like copying from an unauthorized source, written material on any paper or body parts etc. 	07 Years 
14. 	Impersonate / Procuring impersonation by any person. 	07 Years 
15. 	Taking snapshots, making videos of the question papers or the examination material, Labs etc.  	07 Years 
16. 	Sharing examination terminal through remote desktop software/ Apps/ LAN/ VAN, etc. 	07 Years 
17. 	Attempt to hack or manipulate examination servers, data and examination systems at any point before, during or after the examination. 	07 Years 
18. 	Candidate acting as scribe in same examination or providing false declaration about scribe. 	03-05 years 
18A. 	Candidate/Scribe acting as ‘own scribe’ in the same examination more than once. 	03 Years 
18B. 	Candidate availing services of a Scribe, who is debarred from the Recruitment Process. 	03 Years 
19. 	During the examination, at any stage, if it is found that the scribe is independently answering the questions or prompting answers in any direct/ indirect manner to candidate. 	07 years 
20. 	Candidate applying wit 
/Father’s name, DoB etc. in different Recruitments or vice a versa. 	01 – 05 years 
21. 	Impersonator (as per the records of Staff Selection Commission) appearing as scribe for candidate 	07 years 
23. 	The scribe appearing for more than one candidate in the same examination of SSC or candidate engaging such scribe. 	05 - 07 years 
22.3	The Commission may also report the matter to Police / Investigating Agencies, as deemed fit. Commission may also take appropriate action to get the matter examined by the Authorities/ Forensic experts concerned. 
 
23.	Commission’s Decision Final: 
The decision of the Commission in all matters relating to eligibility, acceptance or rejection of the applications, penalty for false information, mode of selection, conduct of examinations, allotment of examination centers, preparation of merit list & post allocation and debarment for indulging in malpractices will be final and binding on the candidates and no enquiry/ correspondence will be entertained in this regard. 
24.	Jurisdiction of Courts/Tribunals: 
Any dispute with respect to this recruitment will be subject to the Courts/ Tribunals having jurisdiction over the place of concerned Regional Office(s) of the Commission where the candidate has appeared in the examination(s). 
 
25.	Disqualifications:  
 No person, (a) who has entered into, or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living, or (b) who, having a spouse living has entered into, or contracted a marriage with any person shall be eligible for appointment to the service provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26.	IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS TO THE CANDIDATES: 
(a) 	Before applying, the candidates are advised to go through the instructions given in the notice of examination very carefully. The notice of examination is printed both in English and Hindi. 
In case of any dispute, the English version will prevail. 
(b) 	The candidate must write his/her name and date of birth strictly as recorded in the matriculation/ secondary certificate. If any variation in the date of birth is observed at the time of entry in the examination venue, he/she shall not be allowed to appear in the examination.  Further, if any variation in the name and date of birth is observed at the time of document verification or any other time, his/ her candidature will be cancelled. 
(c) 	Candidates are advised in their own interest to submit online applications much before the closing date and not to wait till the last date to avoid the possibility of disconnection/ inability or failure to login to the SSC website on account of heavy load on the website during the closing days. 
(d) 	The Commission has implemented Aadhaar Based Biometric Authentication in current Examination. Accordingly, all candidates should authenticate themselves using Aadhaar at the time of One Time Registration, while filling up online application form for the examination. The candidates who could not authenticate themselves through Aadhaar Based Authentication are required to upload the following documents for completion of their One Time Registration (OTR):- 
(i)	Proof of Name viz. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card, PAN Card, Driving License, Government ID Card, Government Service Identity Card, Pension Document 
(ii)	Proof of Date of Birth viz. Birth Certificate, School Leaving Certificate, Certificate of Date of Birth issued by a Gazetted Officer, Aadhaar Card,  
(iii)	Proof of Address viz. Aadhaar Card, Voter Identity Card, Driving License, A Bank Statement with an attested photograph of the applicant, Rent Agreement, Income Tax Assessment Order. 
(iv)	Photograph. 
(v)	Proof of Gender viz. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card, Birth Certificate, School Leaving Certificate. 
(e) 	The Commission will not undertake detailed scrutiny of applications for the eligibility and other aspects at the time of Computer Based examination and, therefore, candidature will be accepted only provisionally. The candidates are advised to go through the requirements of educational qualification, experience, age, physical and medical standards, etc. and satisfy themselves that they are eligible for the post(s). Copies of self-attested supporting documents will be sought at the time of Scrutiny Stage from the shortlisted candidates for the said stage of scrutiny as per Selection Procedure mentioned in para 19 and at the time of Document Verification. When scrutiny of documents is undertaken at any stage of the recruitment process, if any claim made in the application is not found substantiated, the candidature will be cancelled and the User Department/Commission’s decision shall be final. 
(f) 	Candidates seeking reservation benefits available for SC/ST/OBC/PwBD/EWS/ESM must ensure that they are entitled to such reservation as per eligibility prescribed in the Notice of Examination. They should also be in possession of the certificates in the prescribed format in support of their claim. 
(g) 	The candidates with benchmark physical disabilities will be considered as Persons with Disabilities and entitled to age-relaxation/reservation for Persons with Disabilities. 

(h) 	One Time Registration (OTR) of Scribe: A person shall be allowed to act as a scribe only after completing his/her OTR and Aadhaar Based Authentication. Various checks, including ensuring the qualification of scribe to be of a particular level, can be ensured through OTR. A scribe shall not assist more than one candidate in the same examination.  A candidate applying for an examination cannot act as scribe for another candidate in the same examination. If any declaration of the scribe is found false at any stage, the scribe as well as the candidate will be debarred as per rules. Candidates must ensure that name / details of the scribe engaged by him/her are not appearing in the List of Debarred persons available on the website of the Commission. Therefore, the candidate is advised to go through the List of Debarred persons available on the website of the Commission 
(i) 	When application is successfully submitted, it will be accepted ‘Provisionally’. Candidates should take printout of the application form for their own records. 
(j) 	Only one online application is allowed to be submitted by a candidate for one category of post. Therefore, the candidates are advised to exercise due diligence at the time of filling their online application. In case, more than one applications of a candidate are detected for one category of post, all the applications will be rejected by the Commission and his/her candidature for the examination will be cancelled for that post. If a candidate submits the multiple applications for one category of post and appears in the examination (at any stage) more than once, his/ her candidature will be cancelled and he/ she will be debarred from the examinations of the Commission as per rules. 
(k) 	The candidates must write their Father’s name and Mother’s name strictly as given in the Matriculation/ Secondary Certificates, otherwise their candidature may be cancelled at the time of Documents Verification or as and when it comes to the notice of the Commission. 
(l) 	Applications with inappropriate photographs or blurred/miniature signatures, not as per the instructions, will be rejected summarily. However, the application of candidates opted for Aadhaar Based Authentication will not be rejected on this ground. 
(m) 	The candidates are not required to have a pre-existing photograph of himself / herself for applying. The application module has been so designed to capture a photograph of the candidate filling up the application form. The candidates should ensure that the photograph captured is clear, without cap or spectacles, and with full frontal view. In the event of the photograph captured is not as per instructions, the candidates are advised to recapture the photograph. In no case should the candidate capture the photographs of his/her pre-existing photograph. All such applications, where photograph of his/her pre-existing photographs is captured, will be rejected. The appearance of a candidate in the examination should be as per the photograph in the application form. 
The specimen of acceptable/ not acceptable photographs has been given in Annexure-XII. For capturing his/ her photographs, the candidate has to stand / sit before the camera when prompted by the application module and observe the following instructions: 
1.	Find a place with good light and plain background. 
2.	Ensure the camera is at eye level before taking the photo. 
3.	Position yourself directly in front of the camera and look straight ahead. 
4.	Ensure that the face is fully inside the red rectangular area delineated by the camera and that it is neither too close nor too far. It should cover the area fully and no part of the face should be outside the rectangle. 
5.	Candidates shouldn’t wear a cap, mask or glasses/spectacles while capturing the photo. 
6.	Candidates are required to upload the scanned signature in JPEG format (10 to 20 KB). Image dimension of the signature should be about 6.0 cm (width) x 2.0 cm (height). 
Applications with blurred/miniature Signature will be rejected summarily 
However, the applications of candidates, who have opted for Aadhaar Based Authentication, will not be rejected on this ground. 

(n) 	Request for change/ correction in any particulars in the Application Form, after the expiry of period of ‘Window for application form correction’ as provided by the Commission once submitted, will not be entertained under any circumstances. 
(o) 	After the closing date for receipt of online applications, the Commission will provide a period of 03 days to enable the candidates to correct/ modify online application parameters, wherein the candidates will be allowed to re-submit the applications after making requisite corrections/changes as per their requirement. This facility can be availed by online payment of stipulated correction charges as per details given at Para-13 of Notice of Examination. Latest modified application will be treated as the valid one and the previous application(s) submitted by such candidates for the examination will be ignored. 
(p) 	Before submission of the corrected/ final online application as the case may be, candidates must check that they have filled correct details in each field of the form. After submission of the corrected/ final online application form OR expiry of the period of ‘Window for Application Form Correction’, no change/ correction/ modification will be allowed under any circumstances. Requests received in this regard in any form like Post, Email, by hand, etc. shall not be entertained by the Commission and will be summarily rejected. 
(q) 	Candidates are advised to fill their correct and active e-mail addresses and mobile number in the online application as correspondence may be made by the Commission through e- mail/ SMSs. Request to change Mobile No. and E-mail id shall not be entertained at a later stage. 
Though the efforts for sending information to the candidates are made by the Commission, the Commission is not bound to intimate candidates individually about various processes / steps / dates of recruitments through SMS/e-Mails/Posts etc. The website of the Commission is the primary source of information for the candidates and no candidate can claim any relief on the ground that he / she has not been intimated individually through e-mail/SMS, etc. about any process.  Therefore, candidates are advised to regularly visit the website of the Commission/Regional Offices/User Department concerned for updates on recruitment process. 
(r) 	Instances of people trying to impersonate candidates during the examinations have been observed. Since the photograph is captured live during filling up of the application form, there should not be any change in appearance of the candidate during the examination vis-à-vis the photograph in the application form. Examination venue staff has been authorized not to allow any suspicious candidates to take the examination. The candidates are, therefore, advised in their own interest to ensure that their appearance during the day of examination is as per the photograph in application form. In no case should the candidate capture the photographs of his/her pre-existing photograph. All such applications where the photographs of his/her pre-existing photograph is captured will be rejected. However, the application of candidates opted for Aadhaar Based Authentication will not be rejected on this ground. 
(s) 	Those candidates, who could not authenticate themselves with Aadhaar, will have to report at the examination venue two hours before the scheduled time of Examination. In addition to the Admission Certificate, it will be mandatory for them to carry to the examination hall at least two passport size recent colour photographs and Original valid Photo-ID proof having the full Date of Birth as printed on the Admission Certificate, such as: 
(i)	Aadhaar Card/ Printout of E-Aadhaar, 
(ii)	Driving License, 
(iii)	Pan Card 
(iv)	Passport 
(v)	ID Card issued by University/ College/ School, 
(vi)	Employer ID Card (Govt./ PSU), 
(vii)	Ex-Serviceman Discharge Book issued by Ministry of Defence, 
(viii)	Any other photo bearing ID Card issued by the Central/ State Government. 
 
If Photo Identity Card does not have the date of birth printed on it then the candidate must carry an additional original document (e.g. Matriculation Certificate, Marks Sheet issued only 

	by CBSE/ ICSE/ State Boards; Birth Certificate, Category Certificate) as proof of their date of birth. In case of mismatch in date of birth mentioned in the Admission Certificate and the Photo ID/ Certificate brought in support of date of birth, the candidate will not be allowed to appear in the examination. 
PwD/PwBD candidates availing the facility of scribes as per Para 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 above shall also be required to carry requisite Medical Certificate/ Undertaking/ Photocopy of the Scribe’s Photo ID Proof/Scribe Pass, as specified therein. Candidates without these documents will not be allowed to appear in the examination. 
(t) 	In case of fake/ fabricated application/ registration by misusing the name/photograph of any dignitaries, such candidates/ cyber cafe will be held responsible for the same and liable for suitable legal action under Cyber/ IT act. 
(u) 	All the posts carry All India Service Liability (AISL) i.e. the candidate, on selection, may be asked to serve anywhere in the country. 
(v) 	No admission certificates for the aforesaid examination will be issued by post. Candidates are required to download their admission certificate for the examination from the website of Commission. 
(w) 	After successful submission of online application form, the candidate must take a print out of the online Application Form for their own record.  The candidates are advised to keep their application forms and other requisite documents of examination for a period of 03 years keeping in view probable consideration of their candidature by other agencies in accordance with the directions issued by DOPT vide its O.M. No.39020/1/2016-Estt.(B) dated 21.06.2016. 
(x) 	If a candidate is finally selected and does not receive any correspondence from the User Department concerned within a period of 03 months after declaration of result, he/ she must communicate immediately with the concerned User Department only. 
(y) 	Application Fee payable: Rs. 100/- (Rs. One Hundred Only). The Women candidates and the candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Persons with Benchmark Disability (PwBD) and Ex-servicemen (ESM) eligible for reservation are exempted from payment of fee. 
(z) 	All the candidates called for Documents Verification (DV) will be required to appear for Documents Verification in the office of User Department concerned to which the Post Category belongs. 
(aa) 	Instances of people trying to impersonate candidates during the examinations have been observed. Since the photograph is captured live during the filling up of the application form, there should not be any change in appearance of the candidate during the examination vis-àvis the photograph in the application form. Examination venue staff has been authorized not to allow any suspicious candidates to take the examination. The candidates are, therefore, advised in their own interest to ensure that their appearance during the day of examination is as per the photographs in application form. 
(ab) 	Special attention is invited to the declaration at the end of the Application Form. Before agreeing to/signing the declaration, the candidates must go through the Application details filled in and the contents of the declaration itself and agree to/sign it only after satisfying themselves that the information furnished is correct. Any concealment/misrepresentation/ misdeclaration shall lead to cancellation of candidature. 
(ac) 	The Commission undertakes comprehensive post-examination analysis to ensure the integrity and fairness of the examination process. This includes detailed scrutiny through log analysis, photograph and biometric verification, and CCTV footage review. Candidates found to be involved in any form of malpractice or unfair means during any stage of the examination are liable to strict action, including cancellation of candidature and debarment from future examinations, as per the policy of the Commission. 
 
27.	Canvassing: 
Canvassing in any form will disqualify the applicant. 
28.	Good Mental and Bodily Health of the Candidate: 
A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any physical defect likely to interfere with efficient discharge of his/ her duties as an officer of the service. A candidate who, after such medical examination as may be prescribed by the Competent Authority, is found not to satisfy these requirements, will not be appointed. Only such candidates, as are likely to be considered for appointment, will be medically examined. 
 
Note: In the case of the disabled Ex-Defence Services Personnel, a certificate of fitness granted by the Demobilisation Medical Board of the Defence Services will be considered adequate for the purpose of appointment. 
 
 
Under Secretary to the Government of India 
 13th April, 2026  
APPENDIX-I 
Sl. 
No. 	Annexure Nos. 	Caste/ Community/ Category 	Competent Authority 
1. 	Annexure-IA 	PwBD  
(Regarding limitation of an examinee to write) 	Chief Medical Officer/ Civil Surgeon/ 
Medical Superintendent of a 
Government health care institution. 
2. 	Annexure-IB 	PwBD  
(Letter of Undertaking for Using Own Scribe) 	Applicants themselves 
3. 	Annexure-IIA and Annexure-IIB 	PwD  
(Regarding limitation in an examinee to write) having disability less than 40% 	Chief Medical Officer//Civil 
Surgeon/Chief District Medical 
Officer/ Medical Superintendent of a Government health care institution 
4. 	Annexure-III 	Details of categories of Posts 
5. 	Annexure-IV& Annexure IV-A, 	Instruction& Specimen for One-time Registration. 
6. 	Annexure-V & V-A 	Instruction& Specimen for online Application Form. 
7. 	Annexure-VI 	SC/ ST 	  
Authority as prescribed by the States/Union 
Administrations competent to issue 
Caste/Tribe/Community Certificate in respect of 
SC/ST/OBC  
  
8. 	Annexure-VII 	OBC  	
9. 	AnnexureVIII 	Form-V 
 	PwBD 	Medical Authority Competent to issue Medical Certificate and UDID Card. 
		Form-VI 		
10. 	Annexure-IX 	ESM 	Commanding Officer 
11. 	Annexure-IX(A) 		Applicants themselves 
12. 	Annexure-X 	CGCE 	Head of Office or Head of Department 
13. 	Annexure-X(A) 		Applicants themselves 
14. 	Annexure-XI 	EWS 	Authority as prescribed by the States/Union Administrations competent to issue and Income and Asset Certificate in respect of EWS. 
15. 	Annexure-XII 	Specimen of Photographs Acceptable/Not Acceptable in Application 
16. 	Annexure-XIII 	Abbreviations used. 
 
NOTE: DoP&T vide their letter No.36039/1/2019-Estt(Res.II)dated 15.03.2024 has issued revised instructions regarding authorities competent to issue Caste/Tribe/Community certificates in respect of SC/ST/OBC and Income and Asset Certificate in respect of EWS etc.  User Departments while scrutinizing the documents and conducting the document verification may follow the instruction issued by Department of Personnel & Training. 
 
 	 
 
 
 
  
ANNEXURE-IA 
 
CERTIFICATE OF PHYSICAL LIMITATION OF AN EXAMINEE TO WRITE 
 
This is to certify that, I have examined Mr./Ms./Mrs.______________________ 
__________________________ (name of the candidate with disability), a person with _____________________________ (nature and percentage of disability as mentioned in the certificate of disability), S/o / D/o ____________________________ a resident of _____________, Village ______________, District____________, State _______, and to state that he/ she has physical limitation which hampers his/ her writing capabilities owning to his/ her disability. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Place: 
Date: 	Signature                         
 
  Chief Medical Officer/ Civil Surgeon/ Medical Superintendent of a Government Health Care Institution 
	 	 	Name & Designation 
Name of Government Hospital/ Health 
Care Centre with Seal 
 
 
 
Note: Certificate should be given by a specialist of the relevant stream/ disability (eg. For Visual Impairment – Ophthalmologist, and For Locomotor disability - Orthopedics Specialist/PMR). 
 
 
 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	35 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-IB 
LETTER OF UNDERTAKING FOR USING OWN SCRIBE 
 
I_____________________________, a candidate with_____________________ (name of the disability) appearing for the ______________________ __________ (name of the Examination) bearing Roll No._______________ at _____________________ (name of the Centre) in the District _______________of _______________ (name of the State / UT). My educational qualification is ___________________________. 
 
2.	I do, hereby, state that Shri/Mr./Ms./Mrs.___________________________ (name of the scribe) will provide the service of scribe/ reader/ lab assistant for the undersigned for taking the aforesaid examination. 
 
3.	I do, hereby, undertake that his/ her educational qualification is _____________. In case, subsequently it is found that his/ her qualification is not as declared by the undersigned and is beyond my qualification, I shall forfeit my right to the post and claims relating thereto. 
 
 
 
(Signature of the candidate with Disability) Place:  
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-IIA 
 
Certificate for person with specified disability covered under the definition of Section 2(s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, 
i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing. 
This is to certify that, we have examined Mr./Ms./Mrs. ________________________ (name of the candidate), S/o / D/o _________________________________________, a resident of ___________________________________________________________________(Village/ PO/PS/District/State), aged _____ years is a person with _____________________ (nature of disability/condition), and to state that he/she has limitation which hampers his/her writing capability owing to his/her above condition. He/she requires support of scribe for writing the examination. 
 
2.	The above candidate uses aids and assistive device such as prosthetics and orthotics, hearing aid ______________________ (name to be specified) which is /are essential for the candidate to appear at the examination with the assistance of scribe.  
3.	This certificate is issued only for the purpose of appearing in written examination conducted by the recruitment agencies as well as academic institutions and is valid up to __________ (it is valid for maximum period of six months or less as may be certified by the medical authority) 
Signature of Medical Authority 
 
(Signature & Name) 	(Signature & Name) 	(Signature & Name) 	(Signature & Name) 	(Signature & Name) 
 	 	 	 	 
Orthopedic / 
PMR 
Specialist 
 	Clinical Psychologist / 
Rehabilitation Psychologist 
/ Psychiatrist / Special Educator 	Neurologist 
(if available) 
 	Occupational Therapist 
(if available) 	Other Expert, as nominated by the 
Chairperson (if any) 
(Signature & Name) 
Chief Medical Officer/ Civil Surgeon/ Chief District Medical Officer _____ the Chairperson 
 
 Name of Government Hospital/ Health Care Centre with Seal  
Place: 
Date: 	 
Annexure-IIB 
 
Letter of Undertaking by the person with specified disability covered under the definition of Section 2 (s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) 
of the said Act i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing 
 
 
  I ___________________________, a candidate with ___________________ (nature of disability / condition) appearing for the __________________________________ (name of the examination) bearing Roll No. _________________ at ______________________ (name of the examination centre) in the District _________________, _________________ (name of the State). My educational qualification is _____________________.  
 
2.	I do hereby state that Mr./Ms./Mrs. _______________________________ (name of the scribe) will provide the service of scribe for the undersigned for taking the aforementioned examination.  
 
3.	I do hereby undertake that his/her qualification is ______________________. In case, subsequently, it is found that his qualification is not as declared by the undersigned and is beyond my qualification. I shall forfeit my right to the post or certificate / diploma / degree and claims relating thereto. 
 
 
(Signature of the candidate) 
 
(Counter signature by the Parent/Guardian, if the candidate is minor) 
 
 
Place: 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
Annexure-III 
 
ANNEXURE-III MAY BE SEEN AT THE END OF THIS NOTICE 
 
1.	The complete details of any Post Category like Essential Qualification, Experience Requirement, Skill Test, Age Limit, Job Requirement, Suitability of PwD categories/subcategories, etc. may be accessed through the link https://ssc.gov.in/rhq-selection-post/rhqpost-details by selecting the name of examination- Phase-XIV/2026/Selection Posts and Regional Office to which the particular Post belongs. 
 
2.	The Commission reserves the right to alter/change/cancel/withdraw any or all the vacancies at any stage. The vacancies indicated in the Notice are tentative. In case of cancellation of post(s), the application fee paid against the post cancelled will not be refunded or adjusted against any other examination or selection. 
 
 	  
Annexure-IV 
 
PROCEDURE FOR FILLING ONLINE APPLICATION 
 
The process of filling online application for the examination consists of two parts: 
(A)	One-Time Registration (OTR). 
(B)	Filling online Application for the Examination. 
 
Part-A (One-Time Registration): 
1.	Please read the instructions given in the Notice of Examination carefully before filling up the online 'One-time Registration Form' and “Application Form”. 
2.	Aadhaar Based Authentication has been implemented for current Examination. All candidates should authenticate themselves using Aadhaar Number at the time of One Time Registration (OTR), while filling up the online application form for examination. Candidates who could not authenticate themselves through Aadhaar Based system are required to upload the prescribed documents for completing their One Time Registration (OTR) 
3.	Before proceeding the One-time Registration, keep the following information/ documents ready: 
(a)	Mobile Number (to be verified through OTP). 
(b)	Email ID (to be verified through OTP). 
(c)	Aadhaar Card Number. If Aadhaar Number is not available, please give any one of the following Identity numbers. (You will be required to provide the original document at a later stage): 
(i)	Voter Identity Card 
(ii)	PAN 
(iii)	Passport 
(iv)	Driving License 
(v)	School / College Identity Card 
(vi)	Employer Identity Card (Government/ PSU/Private) 
(d)	Information about the Examination Board, Roll Number and Year of Passing the Matriculation (10th) Examination. 
(e)	Disability Certificate Number, if you are a Person with Benchmark Disability. 
4.	For One-time Registration (OTR), click on “Login or Register” button provided on https://ssc.gov.in. 
5.	One-time Registration process requires filling up of following information: 
(a)	Personal Details 
(b)	Password Creation 
(c)	Additional Details 
(d)	Declaration 
6.	For filling up ‘One-time Registration Form’, please follow the following steps: 
(a)	Few critical detail/fields (eg. Aadhaar Number, Name, Father’s name, Mother’s name, Date of birth, etc.) are required to be entered twice, in the relevant columns of the Registration Form, for verification purpose and to avoid any mistakes. If there is mismatch between the original and the verify data fields, an indication will be given/displayed in red text. 
(b)	Sl. No. 1; provide the information about Aadhaar Number. If you don’t have Aadhaar Number you are required to upload the following documents:-  
(i)	For Proof of Name viz. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card, PAN Card, Driving 
License, Govt. Identity Card, Govt. Service Identity Card, Pension document 
(ii)	For Proof of Date of Birth viz. Birth Certificate, School Leaving Certificate, Certificate of Date of Birth issued by a Gazetted Officer, Aadhaar Card,  
(iii)	For Proof of Address viz. Aadhaar Card, Voter Identity Card, Driving License, Bank Statement with attested photograph of the applicant, Rent Agreement, Income Tax Assessment Order. 
(iv)	Photograph. 
(v)	For Proof of Gender viz. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card, Birth Certificate, School Leaving Certificate. 
(c)	Sl. No. 2:- Fill your name exactly as given in the Matriculation (10th Class) Certificate.  
(d)	Sl. No. 3 :- In case, any changes in your name have made after matriculation (10th Class), indicate the same at Sl. No. 3a and 3b. 
(e)	Sl. No. 4 :- Indicate your Gender (Male/Female/Transgender). 
(f)	Sl. No. 5 :- Fill your Date of Birth (DoB) exactly as given in Matriculation (10th Class) Certificate. 
(g)	Sl. No. 6 :- Fill your Father’s name exactly as given in the Matriculation (10th Class) Certificate. 
(h)	Sl. No. 7 :- Fill your Mother’s name exactly as given in the Matriculation (10th Class) Certificate. 
(i)	Sl. No. 8 to Sl. No. 10 :- Details of Matriculation (10th Class) Examination which includes: 
(i)	Name of Education Board 
(ii)	Roll Number 
(iii)	Year of passing 
(j)	Sl. No. 11 :- Level of Educational Qualification (Highest). 
(k)	Sl. No. 12 :- Your Mobile Number. This must be a functional mobile number as it will be verified through “One Time Password” (OTP). It may be noted that any information which the Commission may like to communicate with you, will be sent on this mobile number only. Your mobile number will also be used for retrieval of password/ Registration Number, if required. 
(l)	Sl. No. 13:- Your e-Mail ID. This must be a working e-Mail ID as it will be verified through OTP. It may also be noted that any information which the Commission may like to communicate, with you will be sent on the e-Mail ID only. Your e-Mail ID will also be used for retrieval of Password/ Registration Number, if required. 
(m)	When the Basic Details provided at Sl. No. 01 to 13 are saved, you will be required to confirm your mobile number and email ID. On confirmation, your data will be saved and your Registration Number will be displayed on the screen. Your Registration Number and Password will be provided to you on your mobile number and Email ID. 
(n)	You have to complete the Registration Process within 14 days failing which your Registration Details saved so far will be deleted. 
(o)	Login using your Registration Number as username and the auto-generated password provided to you on your mobile and email.  
Password Creation 
(p)	Change your password, when prompted on first login. 
(q)	After successful password change, you need to login again using your Registration Number and changed password. 
(r)	On successful login, information about the “Basic Details”so far filled by you will be displayed. You may edit it, if required or proceed further by clicking on “Next” button at the bottom to complete your One-time Registration. Additional Details 
(s)	Sl. No. 1: Provide information about your Category. 
(t)	Sl. No. 2: Provide information about your Nationality 
(u)	Sl. No. 3: Provide Contact Details if other than Indian National 
(v)	Sl. No. 4: Provide information about visible Identification Mark. You may be required to show the Identification Mark at various stages of examination. 
(w)	Sl. No. 5: Provide information about benchmark disabilities, if any. If you are suffering from any specific benchmark disability identified suitable for govt. 
jobs, then provide Disability Certification Number. 
(x)	Sl. No. 6 - 7: Provide information about your Permanent and Present Address. Save the data and proceed further to last Part of the Registration Process. 
(y)	Save the information provided. Take the print of draft Preview and review the information provided thoroughly, before “Final Submit”. 
(z)	Upon clicking the “Final Submit” button, two different OTPs will be sent on your mobile number and Email ID. You need to enter one of the two OTPs at designated field to complete the Registration Process. 
(aa)	Read the “Declaration” carefully and if you agree with the declaration, click “I Agree”. 
(bb)	After submission of Basic Information, if the registration process is not completed within 14 days, your data will be deleted from the system. 
7.	Though you can edit/ modify your One-time Registration data, you must be very cautious while filling up details in the One-time Registration. Wrong/incorrect information may lead to cancellation of our candidature. 
8.	You are again advised that your Name, Father’s name, Mother’s name, Date of Birth (DoB), Matriculation Examination detail should be filled exactly as recorded in the Matriculation (10th class) certificate. Your candidature may get cancelled in case of incorrect/ wrong information. 
ANNEXURE IV-A 
ONE TIME REGISTRATION SPECIMEN –Phase-XIV/2026/Selection Posts (WEB) 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 	 
  
 	 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 	 
Annexure-V Part-B (Online Application Form):- 
1.	Before you proceeding with filing of the Online Application form, keep the following preparations/details/data ready: 
(a) In the online Application Form, candidates are required to capture their live photo through webcam/mobile device and upload. For capturing the live photo, the candidates are advised of the followings:-  
(i)	Find a place with good light and plain background  
(ii)	Ensure the Camera is at eye level before taking the photo  
(iii)	Position yourself directly in front of the webcam and look straight ahead  
(iv)	Candidates shouldn’t wear cap, mask or glasses/spectacles while taking a live photo. 
  Candidates who are unable to capture their live photo through web cam/mobile device are advised to use QR code provided at Sl. No. 2 of Upload Documents page for downloading the app from play store for capturing their live photo through mobile device. The photo should be without cap, without spectacles and frontal view of the face should be visible. Application with poor quality, miniature and blurred photo/ side facing photographs will be rejected. Specimens of Photographs which are not acceptable are given at Annexure-XII. 
(b) The scanned signature in JPEG/JPG format (10 to 20 KB). The image dimension of signature should be about 4.0 cm (Width) x 2.0 cm (Height). The applications with blurred signature will be rejected summarily. For the PwD(VH) candidates, the thumb impression is also allowed. 
2.	Login to the online system through your ‘Registration Number’ and Password. 
3.	Click “Apply” link in the “Phase-XIV/2026/Selection Posts Examination” Section under “Live Examination” tab. 
4.	The information in columns at Sl. No. 01 to 18 will be automatically filled from your One-Time Registration data which is non-editable. If you want to make correction in these data, click on “Edit Registration Details” button provided at the right hand top corner of ‘Candidate Dashboard’ and suitably edit your One-time Registration data. 
5.	Sl. No. 19: If you are serving in Armed Forces or are an Ex-serviceman, fill up the required information. The wards of Servicemen/ Ex-servicemen are not treated as the Ex-servicemen (ESM). 
6.	Sl. No.19.1: If selected Yes in Sl. No. 19, kindly enter the date of joining the Armed Forces. 
7.	Sl. No. 19.2: Kindly enter the date of Discharge/likely date of Discharge from the Armed Forces. 
8.	Sl. No. 19.3: The length of Service will be auto-populated on the basis of data filled in at Sl. No. 19.1 and 19.2 
9.	Sl. No. 19.4: Kindly Select the Option whether you already joined a Civil Post by availing the benefit of reservation for Ex-Serviceman (ESM). Please refer Para No. 
7.4 of Notice for details. 
10.	Sl. No. 20: If you are a Government Employee i.e. working in a Central Government Department or State Government Department, select the appropriate option.  
11.	Sl. No. 20.1: If yes is selected in Sl. No. 20. Kindly indicate the Name of Ministry/ Department/Organization.  
12.	Sl. No. 21: Give your preference for Examination Centers. It may carefully be noted that Region once selected in the very first Online Application Form, will be frozen for all subsequent applications across all Regions irrespective of level of Postcategory. 
13.	Sl. No. 22.1: Please opt yes if your disability is more than 40% in VH category. These options will be displayed for the candidates who have selected their category status PWBD as per their details in One Time Registration (OTR). Also Upload relevant certificate (Annexure-VIII/ Disability Certificate) 
14.	Sl. No. 22.2: Please opt yes if your disability is more than 40% in OH category (OH Both Arm affected or OH - Cerebral Palsy). These options will be displayed for the candidates who have selected their category status PwBD as per their details in One Time Registration (OTR). Also Upload the relevant certificate (Annexure-VIII/ Disability Certificate) 
15.	Sl. No. 22.3: Indicate if you have physical limitation to write and Scribe is required on your behalf. Please go through Para-9.2 or 9.3 of the Notice of Examination for more information. Also upload relevant certificate (Annexure-IA/ Annexure-IIA & IIB / Disability Certificate). 
16.	Sl. No. 22.4: Please indicate whether scribe is required. 
17.	Sl. No. 22.5:  Please indicate your choice for option of own scribe or scribe provided by the Commission/SSC. 
18.	Sl. No. 23: Please select medium of Computer Based Examination (English/Hindi). (Please See para 15.4) 
19.	Sl. No. 24: Select the Region name to which the post you are applying belongs to. 
20.	Sl. No. 25: Select the Post Code to which you are applying. 
21.	Sl. No. 26 & 27: Post Name and Level of Post is automatically displayed based on the Post Code selected by you. 
22.	Sl. No. 28.1: Please provide your highest educational qualification acquired by the cut-off date as per Notification.  
23.	Sl. No. 28.2: Please provide the details of your highest educational qualification related to the Post. 
24.	Sl. No. 29: Essential Qualification required for the Post is automatically displayed based on the Post Code selected and your confirmation (by Tick the check box to proceed ahead) that the Essential Qualification/Experience etc. related to the post have been read by you. 
25.	Sl. No. 29.1: Please select appropriate box to indicate possessing of required Essential Qualification for the Post. 
26.	Sl. No. 29.2: Please select appropriate box to indicate possessing of work experience as per requirement of the Post. In case the experience is not required for the post selected by you, the option ‘Not Applicable’ may be selected. 
27.	Sl. No. 30: If you are seeking age relaxation, select Yes/No. 
28.	Sl. No.  30.1: Select the appropriate relaxation code/category. 
29.	Sl. No. 31: If the post carry Skill Test, please select Medium of Skill Test 
30.	Upload your live Photographs as specified at Sl. No. 1(a) above. 
31.	Upload your scanned signature as specified at Sl. No. 1(b) above. Applications with blurred signature will be rejected. In case PwD(VH) candidates are uploading thumb impression, it may be ensured that clear thumb impression is uploaded. 
32.	While seeing Preview of the application, you may kindly check all the details entered are correct and instructions regarding photograph/signature as mentioned above at the various places in the Notice are duly followed and verify information provided by you. 
33.	Complete your declaration by clicking on “I agree” check box and fill up the Captcha Code displayed. 
34.	On verification of correctness of details/data in your application as visible in Preview, proceed by clicking on “Submit” the Application. 
35.	Proceed to make fee payment if you are not exempted from payment of fee. 
36.	Fee can be paid online through BHIM UPI, Net Banking, by using Visa, Master card, Maestro, RuPay Credit or Debit cards. 
37.	Refer Para-12 of the Notice of Examination for further information on the payment of fee. 
38.	When the application is successfully submitted, it will be accepted 'Provisionally'. Candidate must take/retain printout of the application form for submission to the Commission after conduct of Computer Based Examination (CBE) as and when called for as well as for their own records. 
39.	The candidates are advised to keep their application forms and other requisite documents of examination for a period of 03 years for their keeping in view probable consideration of their candidature by other agencies in accordance with the directions issued by DOPT vide its O.M. No.39020/1/2016-Estt.(B) dated 21.06.2016. 
 	 
Annexure-V-A 
APPLICATION FORMAT SPECIMEN- Phase-XIV/2026/Selection Posts
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 	 
Annexure-VI 
FORMAT FOR SC/ ST CERTIFICATE 
            A candidate who claims to belong to one of the Scheduled Caste or the Scheduled Tribes should submit in support of his/her claim an attested/certified copy of a certificate in the form given below, from the District Officer or the Sub-Divisional Officer or any other officer as indicated below of the District in which his parents (or surviving parent) ordinarily reside who has been designated by the State Government concerned as competent to issue such a certificate. If both his/her parents are dead, the officer signing the certificate should be of the district in which the candidate himself ordinarily resides otherwise than for the purpose of his/her own education. Wherever photograph is an integral part of the certificate, the Commission would accept only attested photocopies of such certificates and not any other attested or true copy. 
(The format of the certificate to be produced by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates applying for appointment to posts under Government of India) 
 
This is to certify that Shri/Shrimati/Kumari*________________________son/daughter of Shri ________________________________ Village/Town*___________________in District/Division* _________________of the State/Union Territory* _______________ belongs to the Caste/Tribes ____________________ which is recognized as a Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes* under:- 
The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 
The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 
The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Union Territories Order, 1951* 
The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Union Territories Order, 1951* 
As amended by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Lists (Modification) Order, 
1956, the Bombay Reorganization Act, 1960 & the Punjab Reorganization Act, 1966, the State of Himachal Pradesh Act 1970, the North-Eastern Area (Reorganization) Act, 1971 and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Order (Amendment) Act, 1976. 
The Constitution (Jammu & Kashmir) Scheduled Castes Order, 1956 
The Constitution (Andaman and Nicobar Islands) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1959 as amended by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes order (Amendment Act), 1976*. 
The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) Scheduled Castes order 1962.  
The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) Scheduled Tribes Order 1962@.  
The Constitution (Pondicherry) Scheduled Castes Order 1964@ 
The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) (Uttar Pradesh) Order, 1967 @  
The Constitution (Goa, Daman & Diu) Scheduled Castes Order, 1968@  
The Constitution (Goa, Daman & Diu) Scheduled Tribes Order 1968 @  
The Constitution (Nagaland) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1970@ 
The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Castes Order 1978@  
The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Tribes Order 1978@ 
The Constitution (Jammu & Kashmir) Scheduled Tribes Order 1989@  
The Constitution (SC) orders (Amendment) Act, 1990@ The Constitution (ST) orders (Amendment) Ordinance 1991@  
The Constitution (ST) orders (Second Amendment) Act, 1991@  
The Constitution (ST) orders (Amendment) Ordinance 1996@ 
The Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Orders (Amendment) Act 2002@  
The Constitution (Scheduled Caste) Orders (Amendment) Act 2002@ 
The Constitution (Scheduled Caste & Scheduled Tribe) Orders (Amendment) Act 2002  The Constitution (Scheduled Caste) Order (Amendment) Act 2007@ 
 
% 2. Applicable in the case of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes persons who have migrated from one State/ Union Territory Administration. 
 
This Certificate is issued on the basis of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes certificate issued to Shri/Shrimati _________________________________________Father/Mother of Shri/Srimati/Kumari* __________________________of village/town*__________in District/Division*___________ of State/Union Territory __________ dated__________. 
 
% 3. Shri/Shrimati/Kumari ____________________________________ and/or* his/her family ordinarily reside(s) in ________________________________village/town* of District/Division* ______________of the State/Union Territory of__________ 
 
Signature Place: _______________ 	 
Date: _______________ 
Name and Designation** (With seal of office)
 
* Please delete the words which are not applicable  @ Please quote specific presidential order % Delete the paragraph which is not applicable. 
NOTE:- The term ordinarily reside(s) used here will have the same meaning as in Section-20 of the Representation of the People Act, 1950. 
**List of authorities empowered to issue Caste/ Tribe Certificates: 
(i)	District Magistrate/ Additional District Magistrate/ Collector/ Deputy Commissioner/ Additional Deputy Commissioner/ Deputy Collector/ First Class Stipendiary Magistrate/ Sub-Divisional Magistrate/ Extra-Assistant Commissioner/ Taluka Magistrate/ Executive Magistrate. 
(ii)	Chief Presidency Magistrate/ Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate/ Presidency Magistrate. 
(iii)	Revenue Officers not below the rank of Tehsildar. 
(iv)	Sub-Divisional Officers of the area where the candidate and/or his family normally resides. 
Note:- ST Candidates belonging to Tamil Nadu State should submit caste certificate Only From the Revenue Divisional Officer. 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE-VII 
 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY OTHER BACKWARD CLASSES 
APPLYING FOR APPOINTMENT TO POSTS UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
 
This is to certify that Shri/Smt./Kumari ________________________________son/daughter of 
Shri/Smt. ________________________________ of village/town _____________________in District/Division ___________________in the State/Union Territory_____________________ belongs to the ______________________community which is recognized as a Backward Class under the Government of India, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment’s Resolution No. _______________________ dated __________*. Shri/Smt./Kumari _____________________ and/or his/her family ordinarily reside(s) in the ________________________ District/Division of the _______________________________State/Union Territory.  
 
2.  This is also to certify that he/she does not belong to the persons/sections (Creamy Layer) mentioned in Column-3 of the Scheduled to the Government of India, Department of Personnel & Training O.M. No. 36012/22/93-Estt (SCT) dated 8.9.1993**. 
 
District Magistrate / Deputy Commissioner etc. 
	Dated: 	 
Seal: 
 
_____________________________________________________________________________ 
* The authority issuing the certificate may have to mention the details of Resolution of Government of India, in which the caste of the candidate is mentioned as OBC. 
 
** As amended from time to time. 
 
Note: The term “Ordinarily” used here will have the same meaning as in Section-20 of the Representation of the People Act, 1950. 
	 	62 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE-VIII 
 
Logo of Government of India 	Logo 	of 	Department 	of 
Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities 	Logo or Respective State of Union Territory 
 
Form-V 
Disability Certificate 
(In case of Single Disability) 
[See rule 18(1)] 
(Name and Address of the Medical Authority Issuing the Certificate) 
 
Recent 	passport 	size photograph (Showing face only) of the person with disability 
	Certificate/UDID No. 	Date of Issue : 
This is to certify that I/we have carefully examined <Name of the applicant>, Son/Daughter/Care of < name of Father/mother/guardian>, Date of Birth (DD/MM/YYYY), Gender < Male/Female/Transgender>, Registration No. 
<UDID Enrolment No.> Resident of < address of PwD> whose photograph is affixed above, and I am /we are satisfied that: 
 
(A) He/She is a case of (Any one of the following disabilities): i. Locomotor Disability ii. Muscular Dystrophy iii. Leprosy Cured iv. Dwarfism 
v. Cerebral Palsy vi. Acid Attack Victim vii. Low Vision viii. Blindness 
 	 
ix.	Hearing Impairment 
x.	Speech and Language Disability xi. Intellectual Disability xii. Specific Learning Disabilities xiii. Autism Spectrum Disorder 
xiv. Mental Illness xv. Chronic Neurological Conditions xvi. Multiple Sclerosis xvii. Parkinson’s Diseases xviii. Haemophilia xix. Thalassemia xx. Sickle Cell Disease 
 
(B)	Name of affected body part: 
 
(C)	The diagnosis in his/her case is  	 
 
(D)	He/She has   % (in figure)   percent (in words) disability and the nature of certificate is {Permanent / temporary and valid till (DD/MM/YYYY) } as per the guidelines for the purpose of assessing the extent of specified disability in a person included under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 notified by Government of India vide <Notification No> dated (DD/MM/YYY). 
 
Signature / Thumb impression of the Person with Disability: Signature of notified Medical Authority Member(s): 
 
 
 
Signature: 
 
   Name and Address of the Medical Authority Issuing the Certificate: 
 	 
ANNEXURE-VIII  
 
 
Logo of Government of India 	Logo 	of 	Department 	of 
Empowerment of Persons with 
Disabilities 	Logo or Respective State of Union Territory 
Form-VI 
Disability Certificate 
(In case of Multiple Disabilities) 
[See rule 18(1)] 
(Name and Address of the Medical Authority Issuing the Certificate) 
 
 
Recent 	passport 	size photograph (Showing face only) of the person with disability 
 
	Certificate/UDID No. 	Date of Issue : 
This is to certify that I/we have carefully examined <Name of the applicant>, Son/Daughter/Care of < name of Father/mother/guardian>, Date of Birth (DD/MM/YYYY), Gender < Male/Female/Transgender>, Registration No. 
<UDID Enrolment No.> Resident of < address of PwD> whose photograph is affixed above, and I am /we are satisfied that: 
(A)	He/She is a case of Multiple Disabilities. His/her extent of physical impairments/ disabilities have been evaluated as per the guidelines for the purpose of assessing the extent of specified disability in a person included under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 notified by Government of India vide <Notification No> dated (DD/MM/YYY) for the disabilities below: 
 
S.No. 	Disability 	Name of Affected Body Part 	Diagnosis 	Disability Percentage 
1 	Locomotor Disability 	 	 	 
2 	Muscular Dystrophy 	 	 	 
 
 
3 	Leprosy Cured 	 	 	 
4 	Dwarfism 	 	 	 
5 	Cerebral Palsy 	 	 	 
6 	Acid Attack Victim 	 	 	 
7 	Low Vision 	 	 	 
8 	Blindness 	 	 	 
9 	Hearing Impairment 	 	 	 
10 	Speech 	and 	Language 
Disability 	 	 	 
11 	Intellectual Disability 	 	 	 
12 	Specific 	Learning 
Disabilities 	 	 	 
13 	Autism Spectrum Disorder 	 	 	 
14 	Mental Illness 	 	 	 
15 	Chronic 	Neurological 
Conditions 	 	 	 
16 	Multiple Sclerosis 	 	 	 
17 	Parkinson’s Diseases 	 	 	 
18 	Haemophilia 	 	 	 
19 	Thalassemia 	 	 	 
20 	Sickle Cell Disease 	 	 	 
(Note: Only the disabilities diagnosed will be listed) 
(B)	He/She has   % (in figure)    percent (in words) overall disability and the nature of certificate is {permanent/ temporary and valid till 
(DD/MM/YYYY)} 
 
 
Signature / Thumb impression of the Person with Disability: 
 
 
Signature of notified Medical Authority Members: 
 
 
Signature: 
Name and Address of the Medical Authority Issuing the Certificate: 
ANNEXURE- IX 
 
 
 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE FOR SERVING DEFENCE PERSONNEL 
(Please see Para-7 and 7.8 of Notice for the Examination) 
 
 
I hereby certify that, according to the information available with me (No.) 
	 	  (Rank)  	 (Name)  	is due to 
complete the specified term of his engagement with the Armed Forces on the (Date) 
	 	  (DD/MM/YYYY) 
 
Place: _______________ 
Dated: _______________ 
 
(Signature of Commanding Officer) 
 
 
Office Seal 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
ANNEXURE-IX(A) 
UNDERTAKING TO BE GIVEN BY THE EX-SERVICEMEN 
(Please see Para-7 and 7.8 of Notice for the Examination) 
 
I ________________________________________, bearing Roll No. _______________, appearing for the Document Verification of the _________________________________ Examination 2026, do hereby undertake that: 
 
(a)	I am entitled to the benefits admissible to Ex-Servicemen in terms of the Ex-Servicemen Re- employment in Central Civil Services and Posts Rules, 1979, as amended from time to time. 
(b)	I have not joined the Government job on civil side (inclu. Public Sector Undertakings, 
Autonomous Bodies/ Statutory Bodies, Nationalized Banks, etc.) in Group “C” and “D” posts on regular basis after availing of the benefits of reservation given to ex-serviceman for re- employment; or 
(c)	I have availed the benefit of reservation as ex-serviceman for securing Government job on civil side. I have joined as…………………………….on………………in the office of………………………………………………………… I hereby undertake that I have 
submitted the self-declaration/ undertaking to my current employer about date wise detail of the application for the above mentioned examination for which I had applied for before joining the present civil employment; or 
(d)	I have availed the benefit of reservation as ex-serviceman for securing Government job on civil side. I have joined as…………………………….on………………in the office of ……………………………………. Therefore, I am eligible for age-relaxation only; 
I hereby declare that the above statements are true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, my candidature/ appointment is liable to be cancelled/ terminated. 
Signature: _____________________________________ 
Name: ________________________________________ 
Roll Number: __________________________________ 
Date: _________________________________________ Date of appointment in Armed Forces:_______________ 
Date of Discharge:_______________________________ 
Last Unit/ Corps:________________________________ 
Mobile Number: ________________________________ 
Email ID:______________________________________ 
 	 
 
ANNEXURE-X 
 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE SUBMITTED BY CENTRAL 
GOVERNMENT CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SEEKING AGE-RELAXATION 
(Please see Para 3.5 of the Notice) 
(To be filled by the Head of Office or Department in which the candidate is working).  
 
It is certified that *Shri/Smt./Km. ________________________________  is a Central Government Civilian employee holding the post of ____________ in the Pay Scale/Level of ____________ Rs._______________________ with three 
(03) years regular service in the grade as on 04.05.2026. 
 
2.   This office has ‘No Objections’ for his/her appearing in Phase-XIV/2026/ Selection Posts Examination. 
 
	Signature 	 
 
Name ______________________ 
 
 
Office Seal____________________ 
 
Place: _________________ 
 
Date: __________________ 
 
(*Please delete the words which are not applicable.)
 	69 
Annexure-X(A) 
 
DECLARATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY ALL CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
CIVILIAN EMPLOYEE (CGCE) 
[Please see Para- 3.5 of the Notice] 
 
I declare that I have already informed my Head of Office/ Department in writing that I have applied for Phase-XIV/2026/Selection Posts Examination and no vigilance is either pending or contemplated against me as on the date of submission of application. 
 
	2.   	I, further, submit the following information:- 
(i)	Date of Appointment:___________________________________________ 
(ii)	Holding present Post & Pay Scale: _________________________________ 
(iii)	Name & Address of Employer (with Tel. No./ E-mail) :__________________ 
_________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________ 
 
Place: ________________ 
Dated: ________________  
Full Signature of the Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 	 
 	 
 	70 
Annexure-XI 
Government of ____________________ 
(Name & Address of the Authority issuing the certificate) 
 
INCOME & ASSET CERTIFICATE  
[TO BE PRODUCED BY ECONOMICALLY WEAKER SECTIONS (EWS)] 
	Certificate No.   	Date 	 
VALID FOR THE YEAR 2026-2027 
This is to certify that Shri/ Smt./ Kumari ___________________________________ Son/ Daughter/ Wife of Shri/Smt. ________________________________________ permanent resident of ______________________, Village/Street ________________________ Post Office _____________________________District ________________in the State/Union Territory  Pin Code ___________ whose photograph is attested below belongs to Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) since the Gross Annual Income* of his/ her ‘family’** is below Rs. 8 Lakh (Rs. Eight Lakh only) for the financial Year ________ His/ her family does not own or possess any of the following assets ***: 
(i)	05 acres of agricultural land and above; 
(ii)	Residential flat of 1000 sq. ft. and above; 
(iii)	Residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above in notified Municipalities; 
(iv)	Residential plot of 200 sq. yards and above in the areas other than the notified Municipalities. 
2. 	Shri/ Smt./ Kumari _______________________________________________belongs to the _____________caste which is not recognized as a Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes (Central List). 
 
Signature with Seal of Office 
Name _________________________ 
Designation: ___________________ 
Recent Passport Size attested photograph of the applicant 
_____________________________________________________________________________ 
* Note 1:    Income covered all sources i.e. salary, agriculture, business, profession etc. 
** Note 2: The term ‘Family’ for this purpose include the person, who seeks benefit of reservation, his/ her parents and siblings below the age of 18 years as also his/ her spouse and children below the age of 18 years. 
*** Note 3: The property held by a “Family” in different locations or different places/cities have been clubbed while applying the land or property holding test to determine EWS status.
 	71 
 
 
 
Annexure-XII 
SPECIMENS OF THE PHOTOGRAPHS 
 
(A)	Allowed  
 
1 
   
 
(B)	Not Allowed 
 
1 	2 	3 	4 
 
 
  	  	  
Too Small 	Too much Extra Color 	Too Close 	Inverse Photo 
 
5 	6 	7 	8 
 
 	 	 	 
With Goggles 	Blur Photographs 	Blur Photographs 	Blur Photographs 
 
 
9 	10 	11 	12 
 	 	 	 
Too Dark 	Facing Sideways 	with Spectacles   	With Cap 
 
 	  
Annexure-XIII 
ABBREVIATIONS USED 
AISL 	All India Service Liability 
BL 	Both Legs Affected 
CGCE 	Central Government Civilian Employee 
D/o 	Department of 
DV 	Documents Verification 
EQ 	Essential Qualification 
ESM 	Ex-Serviceman 
EWS 	Economically Weaker Section 
GEN 	General 
HH 	Hearing Handicapped 
IP 	Initial Posting 
JR 	Job Requirements 
LV 	Low Vision 
M/o 	Ministry of 
NA 	Not Applicable 
O/o 	Office of 
OA 	One Arm Affected 
OBC 	Other Backward Classes 
OH 	Orthopedically Handicapped 
OL 	One Leg Affected 
PD 	Partially Deaf 
PwD 	Persons with Disabilities 
PwBD 	Persons with Benchmark Disabilities 
SC 	Scheduled Castes 
SSC 	Staff Selection Commission 
ST 	Scheduled Tribes 
UR 	Unreserved 
VH 	Visually Handicapped. 
 
 

Sr 
No. 	Region 	Post  Code 	Name of Post 	Name of Department 	Age 
Limit 	Pay Scale 	Exam Level 	Vacancies 
								SC 	ST 	OBC 	UR 	EWS 	Total 	ESM 	OH 	HH 	VH 	Others 
1 	CR 	CR10126 	Stenographer Grade - II 	National Seed Research & Training Centre, 
Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare 
Ministry of Agriculture & 
Farmers Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
2 	CR 	CR10226 	Laboratory Attendant 	National Seed Research & Training, Centre, 
Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare 	18- 27 
 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
3 	CR 	CR10426 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance), Discipline- 
Vehicle 	Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	7 	1 	25 	36 	1 	70 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
4 	CR 	CR10526 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance),  Discipline- Engineering Equipment 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	1 	4 	5 	0 	11 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
5 	CR 	CR10626 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance),  Discipline- 
Electronics 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	9 	3 	12 	46 	5 	75 	0 	2 	2 	0 	0 
6 	CR 	CR10726 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance),  Discipline- 
Metals & Explosives,  
Sub Discipline- Military Explosives 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production,  
Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

7 	CR 	CR10826 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance),  Discipline- 
Metals & Explosives,  
Sub Discipline- Metallurgy 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	2 	0 	4 	5 	2 	13 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
8 	CR 	CR10926 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance),  Discipline- 
Armament,  Sub 
Discipline- Weapons 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	4 	8 	0 	12 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
9 	CR 	CR11026 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance),  Discipline- 
Armament,  Sub 
Discipline- Small Arms 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	2 	2 	4 	1 	10 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
10 	CR 	CR11126 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance), Discipline- Armament,  Sub 
Discipline- Instruments 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	3 	1 	5 	9 	1 	19 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
11 	CR 	CR11226 	Junior Engineer (Quality 
Assurance),  Discipline- Armament,  Sub 
Discipline- Ammunition 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	3 	2 	8 	6 	0 	19 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
12 	CR 	CR11326 	Junior Engineer, 
Discipline- Store,  Sub Discipline- Gentex 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	1 	2 	3 	1 	8 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
13 	CR 	CR11426 	Scientific Assistant      
Discipline- Metals & 
Explosives, Sub discipline- Military 
Explosives 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	3 	1 	6 	9 	1 	20 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

14 	CR 	CR11526 	Scientific Assistant, 
Discipline- Metals & 
Explosives,   Sub discipline- Metallurgy 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	1 	1 	0 	3 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
15 	CR 	CR11626 	Scientific Assistant      
Discipline- Store,        Sub discipline- Chemistry	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
 	Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	1 	0 	3 	1 	5 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
16 	CR 	CR11726 	Scientific Assistant ,  
Discipline- Store,  Sub discipline- Gentex 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	2 	1 	3 	2 	1 	9 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
17 	CR 	CR11826 	Scientific Assistant      Discipline- Vehicle 	 Directorate General of 
Quality Assurance (DGQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
18 	CR 	CR11926 	Drilling Assistant Grade I 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
19 	CR 	CR12026 	Laboratory Assistant Grade I (Geology) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
20 	CR 	CR12126 	Lab. Assistant Grade III (Geology) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	3 	0 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
21 	CR 	CR12226 	Lab. Assistant (Geophysics) Grade III 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

22 	CR 	CR12326 	Stenographer Grade - II 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	3 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
23 	CR 	CR12426 	Store Clerk 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
24 	CR 	CR12526 	Accountant 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
25 	CR 	CR12626 	Store Attendant 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
26 	CR 	CR12726 	Research Assistant 	National Centre for Vector 
Borne Diseases Control, 
Directorate General of 
Health Services (DGHS), 
Department of Health and 
Family Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
27 	CR 	CR12826 	Senior Scientific Assistant (Physics) 	National Research 
Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property (NRLC), Ministry of Culture 	 
18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
28 	CR 	CR12926 	Library and Information Assistant 	National Research 
Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property (NRLC), Ministry of Culture 	 
18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
29 	CR 	CR13026 	Scientific Assistant 	 Central Water Commission, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	5 	3 	2 	12 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 

30 	CR 	CR13126 	Library Attendant 	 Central Soil and Materials 
Research Station (CSMRS), 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 27 
 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
31 	CR 	CR13226 	Mechanic 	 Central Soil and Materials 
Research Station (CSMRS), 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 27 
 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
32 	CR 	CR13326 	Field-cum-Laboratory Attendant 	National Centre for Organic and Natural Farming , 
Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare 	18- 25 
 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
33 	CR 	CR13426 	Senior Research Assistant 	 Central Water Commission, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	2 	1 	8 	0 	13 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
34 	CR 	CR13526 	Senior Scientific Assistant (Explosives) 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
35 	CR 	CR13626 	Senior Scientific Assistant (Chemistry) 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

36 	CR 	CR13726 	Laboratory Attendant 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	1 	3 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
37 	CR 	CR13826 	Junior Engineer 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
38 	CR 	CR13926 	Store Keeper, Grade-II 	 Central Soil and Materials 
Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 27 
 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
39 	ER 	ER10126 	Library and Information Assistant 	 Botanical Survey of India, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	1 	1 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
40 	ER 	ER10226 	Preservation Assistantcum-Garden Overseer 	Botanical Survey of India, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	1 	0 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
41 	ER 	ER10326 	Senior Preservation Assistant 	Botanical Survey of India, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	6 	0 	6 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
42 	ER 	ER10426 	Technical Assistant 	Botanical Survey of India, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	3 	0 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
43 	ER 	ER10526 	Botanical Assistant 	Botanical Survey of India, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
44 	ER 	ER10626 	Laboratory Assistant  	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	3 	0 	3 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 

45 	ER 	ER10726 	Senior Scientific Assistant (Biology) 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
46 	ER 	ER10826 	Senior Scientific Assistant (Chemistry) 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
47 	ER 	ER10926 	Laboratory Attendant 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
48 	ER 	ER11126 	Stenographer (Grade-I) 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
49 	ER 	ER11326 	Field Assistant 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	1 	1 	2 	0 	5 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
50 	ER 	ER11426 	Scientific Assistant  	Directorate General of 
Mines Safety, Ministry of Labour & Employment 	22- 28 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
51 	ER 	ER11526 	Mechanic (Electric cum 
Laboratory Equipment) 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine & 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
52 	ER 	ER11626 	Draftsman (Junior) 	FOREST SURVEY OF INDIA, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
53 	ER 	ER11726 	Fieldman 	FOREST SURVEY OF INDIA, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	3 	0 	0 	6 	0 	9 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

54 	ER 	ER11826 	Deputy Ranger 	FOREST SURVEY OF INDIA, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	6 	1 	7 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
55 	ER 	ER11926 	Lab. Assistant Gr. III (Geophysics) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
56 	ER 	ER12026 	Junior Technical Assistant (Geology) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	0 	3 	8 	0 	13 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 
57 	ER 	ER12126 	Junior Technical Assistant (Geophysics) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
58 	ER 	ER12226 	Drilling Assistant Grade II	 Geological Survey of India, 
 
Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
59 	ER 	ER12326 	Drilling Assistant Grade I 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
60 	ER 	ER12426 	Technical Operator 
(Drilling) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
61 	ER 	ER12526 	Laboratory Assistant Grade III (Chemical) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
62 	ER 	ER12626 	Lab. Assistant Gr. III (Geology) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	3 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
63 	ER 	ER12726 	Junior Technical Assistant (Drilling) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	2 	1 	6 	16 	0 	25 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
64 	ER 	ER12826 	Personal Assistant 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
3 	1 	9 	36 	2 	51 	0 	2 	0 	1 	1 
65 	ER 	ER12926 	Accountant 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

66 	ER 	ER13026 	Lab Assistant Gr.I (Geophysics) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
67 	ER 	ER13126 	Stores Clerk 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	4 	1 	5 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
68 	ER 	ER13226 	Store Attendant 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	1 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
69 	ER 	ER13326 	Store Keeper-cumCaretaker 	National Museum of Natural
History, Ministry of 
Environment & Forests and Climate Change 	 
18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
70 	ER 	ER13426 	Laboratory Assistant  	 National Test House, 
Department of Consumer 
Affairs, Ministry of 
Consumer Affairs, Food, & Public Distribution 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
71 	ER 	ER13526 	Artist Grade I 	Zoological Survey of India , 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
4 	1 	6 	11 	0 	22 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 
72 	ER 	ER13626 	Taxidermist Grade III 	Zoological Survey of India , 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	2 	5 	1 	9 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
73 	ER 	ER13726 	Field Collector 	Zoological Survey of India , 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 3 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	2 	1 	4 	9 	1 	17 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 
74 	ER 	ER13826 	Motor Driver (Ordinary Grade) 	Zoological Survey of India , 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
75 	ER 	ER13926 	Senior Zoological Assistant 	Zoological Survey of India , 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	2 	2 	4 	1 	10 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 

76 	ER 	ER14026 	Field Attendant (with Multi-tasking) 	Zoological Survey of India , 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	1 	2 	9 	0 	13 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
77 	ER 	ER14126 	Photographer Grade III 	Zoological Survey of India , 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
78 	ER 	ER14226 	Office Attendant (MultiTasking Staff) 	Zoological Survey of India , 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
2 	1 	5 	7 	1 	16 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 
79 	ER 	ER14326 	Senior Draughtsman 	 Farakka Barrage Project, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
80 	ER 	ER14426 	Field-cum-Laboratory Attendant 	National Centre for Organic and Natural Farming , 
Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare 	18- 25 
 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
81 	ER 	ER14526 	Accountant 	Natural Centre for Organic and Natural Farming , 
Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare 	18- 27 
 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
82 	KKR 	KK10126 	PROCESSING CUM 
QUALITY ASSURANCE 
SUPERVISOR 	 National Institute of 
Fisheries Post Harvest 
Technology and Training , 
Department of Fisheries, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

83 	KKR 	KK10226 	STENOGRAPHER 
(GRADE-I) 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	1 	3 	0 	5 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
84 	KKR 	KK10326 	SENIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (CHEMICAL) 	 Central Ground Water 
Board, Department of 
Water Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	2 	1 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
85 	KKR 	KK10426 	SENIOR TECHNICAL 
ASSISTANT(HYDROGEOL OGY) 	 Central Ground Water 
Board, Department of 
Water Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
86 	KKR 	KK10526 	MARKETING ASSISTANT 	 National Institute of 
Fisheries Post Harvest 
Technology and Training , 
Department of Fisheries, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	1 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
87 	KKR 	KK10626 	ASSISTANT 
SUPERINTENDENT 
(TECHNICAL) 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
88 	KKR 	KK10726 	SENIOR ARTIST 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
89 	KKR 	KK10826 	ASSISTANT 
SUPERINTENDENT 
(ADMINISTRATION) 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	0 	1 	3 	1 	7 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
90 	KKR 	KK10926 	STENOGRAPHER 
(GRADE-II) 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	1 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

91 	KKR 	KK11026 	INSTRUCTOR (ELECTRONICS) 	 Central Institute of Fisheries, Nautical and Engg.
Training, Department of 
Fisheries, Ministry of 
Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	 
18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
92 	KKR 	KK11226 	ACCOUNTANT 	National Centre For Organic 
And Natural Farming, 
Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare 	18- 27 
 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
93 	KKR 	KK11326 	DEPUTY RANGER 	 Forest Survey of India, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	1 	6 	1 	9 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
94 	KKR 	KK11426 	AGRICULTURE ASSISTANT 	 Central Cattle Breeding 
Farm Hessaraghatta, 
Department of Animal 
Husbandry and Dairying, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 28 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
95 	KKR 	KK11526 	INSPECTOR (SILK) 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
96 	KKR 	KK11626 	JUNIOR ENGINEER 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	1 	1 	1 	4 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
97 	KKR 	KK11726 	LABORATORY ASSISTANT	National Centre For Organic And Natural Farming , Dept. 
 of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare, M/o Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

98 	KKR 	KK11826 	LABORATORY ASSISTANT	Central Frozen Semen  
Production Training 
Institute, Centre Of 
Excellence For Animal 
 Husbandry , Dept. of Animal
Husbandry and Dairying, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	 18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
99 	KKR 	KK11926 	LABORATORY ATTENDANT 	 Central Ground Water 
Board, Department of 
Water Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 27 
 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	3 	7 	2 	13 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
100 	KKR 	KK12026 	FIELD ASSISTANT 	 Central Institute of Coastal 
Engineering for Fishery, 
Department of Fisheries, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
101 	KKR 	KK12126 	STENOGRAPHER 
(GRADE-III) 	Petroleum And Explosives 
Safety Organisation, O/o 
Chief Controller of 
Explosives, Department for 
Promotion of Industry and 
Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce & Industry 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
102 	KKR 	KK12226 	LOWER DIVISION CLERK 	Petroleum And Explosives 
Safety Organisation, O/o 
Chief Controller of 
Explosives, Nagpur , Dept. 
for Promotion of Industry 
and Internal Trade, M/o 
Commerce & Industry 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	1 	1 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

103 	KKR 	KK12326 	LABORATORY ATTENDANT 	Regional Museum Of 
Natural History, National 
Museum of Natural History, Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
104 	KKR 	KK12426 	DRILLER 	 Central Institute of Coastal 
Engineering for Fishery, 
Department of Fisheries, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
105 	KKR 	KK12526 	FIELD ASSISTANT 	 Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	1 	2 	1 	5 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 
106 	KKR 	KK12626 	LABORATORY ATTENDANT 	Centre of Excellence for 
Animal Husbandry Central &
Poultry Development 
Organisation, Department of Animal Husbandry and 
Dairying, Ministry of 
Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	 
18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
107 	KKR 	KK12726 	LABORATORY ATTENDANT 	Central Frozen Semen 
Production Training 
Institute, Centre of 
Excellence for Animal 
Husbandry , Department of 
Animal Husbandry and 
Dairying, Ministry of 
Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

108 	KKR 	KK12826 	PROOF READER 	 Department of Official 
Language, Ministry of Home Affairs 	 18- 27 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
109 	KKR 	KK12926 	ASSISTANT (LEGAL) 	Legislative Department, Ministry of Law & Justice 	18- 30 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	1 	2 	1 	5 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
110 	KKR 	KK13026 	ASSISTANT (PRINTING) 	Legislative Department, Ministry of Law & Justice 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
111 	KKR 	KK13126 	RESEARCH ASSISTANT 	 Intelligence Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
112 	KKR 	KK13226 	COPY HOLDER 	Legislative Department, Ministry of Law & Justice 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
113 	KKR 	KK13326 	COPY HOLDER 	 Official Languages Wing, Legislative Department, 
Ministry of Law & Justice 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
114 	KKR 	KK13426 	SENIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (PRINTING) 	 Office of the Registrar 
General of India, Ministry of Home Affairs 	 18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	2 	7 	1 	11 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
115 	KKR 	KK13526 	JUNIOR TECHNICAL OFFICER 	National Crime Records 
Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	3 	1 	2 	8 	3 	17 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
116 	KKR 	KK13626 	STORE KEEPER GRADE-I 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
117 	KKR 	KK13726 	SURVEYOR 	Survey Of India , 
Department of Science and 
Technology, Ministry of 
Science & Technology 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
29 	14 	53 	81 	20 	197 	0 	2 	3 	0 	3 

118 	KKR 	KK13826 	LOWER DIVISION CLERK 	Petroleum And Explosives 
Safety Organisation,  O/O 
Joint Chief Controller Of 
Explosives, Department for 
Promotion of Industry and 
Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce & Industry 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	2 	1 	0 	3 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
119 	KKR 	KK13926 	SENIOR SCIENTIFIC ASSISTANT (PHYSICS) 	Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
120 	KKR 	KK14026 	NURSING ORDERLY 	Regional Leprosy Training 
And Research Institute 
(RLTRI), Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 
 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
121 	KKR 	KK14126 	INSECT COLLECTOR 	National Centre For Disease 
Control, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
122 	KKR 	KK14226 	LABORATORY ATTENDANT 	National Centre For Disease Control , Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
2 	0 	1 	1 	1 	5 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
123 	KKR 	KK14326 	LABORATORY ASSISTANT	National Centre For Disease 
Control, Directorate General
 
of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	2 	0 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

124 	MPR 	MP10126 	Library Clerk 	National Medical Library , 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
125 	MPR 	MP10226 	Pharmacist-Cum-Clerk 	Directorate General of 
Health Services, 
Government Medical Store 
Depot , Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	21- 28 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	1 	1 	3 	0 	5 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
126 	MPR 	MP10326 	Field Assistant (Iodine Deficiency Disorder) 	 Directorate General of 
Health Services, Dept. of 
Health and Family Welfare, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
127 	MPR 	MP10426 	Operation Theatre Technician  	Central Government Health 
Scheme (CGHS) (HQ), 
Department of Health and 
Family Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	20- 25 	Level 4 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
128 	MPR 	MP10526 	Pharmacist (Allopathic)  	 Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), Dept. of 
Health and Family Welfare, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 27 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
15 	2 	9 	32 	10 	68 	10 	3 	1 	0 	0 
129 	MPR 	MP10626 	Medical Attendant 	 Central Government Health Scheme(CGHS), Dept. of 
Health and Family Welfare, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
18 	18 	55 	115 	29 	235 	10 	3 	3 	5 	1 

130 	MPR 	MP10726 	Nursing Officer 	Central Government Health Scheme(CGHS), Dept. of 
Health and Family Welfare, 
M/o Health & Family Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 7 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	14 	8 	24 	49 	12 	107 	0 	2 	0 	0 	1 
131 	MPR 	MP10826 	Ayurvedic Pharmacist 	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
20- 30 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	3 	4 	10 	20 	1 	38 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 
132 	MPR 	MP10926 	Lady Medical Attendant 	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
7 	4 	24 	39 	12 	86 	1 	1 	1 	2 	0 
133 	MPR 	MP11026 	Pharmacist-cum-clerk (Homoeopathic) 	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	10 	0 	10 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
134 	MPR 	MP11126 	Junior Medical Laboratory Technologist 	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 27 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
135 	MPR 	MP11226 	Lady Health Visitor  	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	1 	1 	8 	1 	11 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

136 	MPR 	MP11326 	Radiographer/X-ray Technician 	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	3 	1 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
137 	MPR 	MP11426 	Panchkarma Therapist  	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
138 	MPR 	MP11526 	Auxiliary Nurse Midwife 	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department  	of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 30 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	0 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
139 	MPR 	MP11626 	ECG Technician (Junior) 	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	6 	1 	7 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
140 	MPR 	MP11726 	Dental Technician  	Central Government Health 
Scheme(CGHS), Department of Health and Family 
Welfare, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	2 	6 	0 	8 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
141 	MPR 	MP11826 	X-Ray Technician 	Chittranjan Avenue, All India
Institute of Hygiene and 
Public Health , Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

142 	MPR 	MP11926 	Demonstrator 
(Biochemistry and Nutrition)  	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 35 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
143 	MPR 	MP12026 	Assistant cine- Technician  	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
144 	MPR 	MP12126 	Caretaker 	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
145 	MPR 	MP12226 	Health Worker (Female) 	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
146 	MPR 	MP12326 	Junior Pharmacist  	RLTRI, Directorate General  of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
147 	MPR 	MP12426 	Tailor  	RLTRI, Directorate General  of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
148 	MPR 	MP12526 	Workshop Assistant  	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

149 	MPR 	MP12626 	Health Assistant (Male)  	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	3 	0 	4 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
150 	MPR 	MP12726 	Pharmacist-cum-Clerk 	 Government Medical Store Depot, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
21- 28 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
151 	MPR 	MP12826 	Draftsman 	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
152 	MPR 	MP12926 	Cook 	 Central Institute of 
Psychiatry, Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
153 	MPR 	MP13026 	Tailor  	 Central Institute of 
Psychiatry, Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
154 	MPR 	MP13126 	Staff Car Driver (ordinary grade) 	 Central Institute of 
Psychiatry, Directorate 
 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
155 	MPR 	MP13226 	Staff Car Driver (Ordinary Grade)  	RLTRI, Directorate General  of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	1 	1 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

156 	MPR 	MP13326 	Junior Laboratory Assistant  	Central Drug Laboratory, 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	2 	5 	0 	8 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
157 	MPR 	MP13426 	Public Health Nursing Officer  	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 8 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
158 	MPR 	MP13526 	Nursing Officer  	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 7 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	1 	1 	6 	0 	8 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
159 	MPR 	MP13626 	Ward Attendants (Male and Female)  	 Central Institute of 
Psychiatry, Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
14 	7 	25 	49 	10 	105 	10 	1 	1 	1 	1 
160 	MPR 	MP13726 	Medical Social Welfare Officer  	 All India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health , Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
161 	MPR 	MP13826 	Technician 	National Centre for Disease 
Control, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
162 	MPR 	MP13926 	Insect Collector  	National Centre for Disease 
Control, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	3 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

163 	MPR 	MP14026 	Junior Engineer  	Central Ground Water 
Board, Central Ground Water Board, Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	3 	1 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
164 	NER 	NE10126 	LIBRARIAN 	Central Academy For State 
Forest Services , Ministry of 
Environment & Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
165 	NER 	NE10226 	JUNIOR ENGINEER 	Central Silk Board ,  Ministry of Textiles 	 
18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
166 	NER 	NE10326 	FIELD ASSISTANT 	Central Silk Board ,  Ministry of Textiles 	 
18- 25 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
167 	NER 	NE10426 	PHARMACIST CUM CLERK 	 Government Medical Store Depot, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
21- 28 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	3 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
168 	NER 	NE10526 	LABORATORY ATTENDANT 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
169 	NER 	NE10626 	Drilling Assistant Gr-I 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	3 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
170 	NER 	NE10726 	DRILLING ASSISTANT GR-
II 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	3 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
171 	NER 	NE10826 	JUNIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (CHEMICAL) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
172 	NER 	NE10926 	JUNIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (GEOLOGY) 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	1 	3 	0 	5 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 

173 	NER 	NE11026 	JUNIOR TECHNICAL 
ASSISTANT 
(GEOPHYSIES) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
174 	NER 	NE11126 	LAB. ASSISTANT GR-III (CHEMICAL) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
175 	NER 	NE11226 	LAB. ASSISTANT GR-III (GEOLOGY) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
176 	NER 	NE11326 	STORE ATTENDANT 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
177 	NER 	NE11426 	TECHNICAL OPERATOR (DRILLING) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	1 	1 	3 	1 	6 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
178 	NER 	NE11526 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- Welder 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	3 	8 	1 	13 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
179 	NER 	NE11626 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- Wood Work 
Technician (old nomenclature 
Carpenter) or Pattern Maker 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	1 	0 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
180 	NER 	NE11726 	Vocational Instructor (Except Women 
Training)- Fitter 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
4 	2 	6 	11 	2 	25 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 
181 	NER 	NE11826 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- Mechanic 
Refrigeration & Air Conditioning 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	2 	2 	1 	6 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

182 	NER 	NE11926 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- Sheet Metal Worker 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
183 	NER 	NE12026 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- Moulder or 
Foundry man 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
184 	NER 	NE12126 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- (Motor 
Mechanic Vehicle or 
Motor Driving Mechanic)	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and 
Entrepreneurship 
 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	1 	4 	5 	1 	13 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
185 	NER 	NE12226 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- (Mechanic Diesel) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	1 	3 	0 	6 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
186 	NER 	NE12326 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- (Mechanic Tractor) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
187 	NER 	NE12426 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- Draughtsman 
(Mechanical) or 
Engineering Drawing or 
Drawing and Arithmetic 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	1 	4 	5 	0 	12 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
188 	NER 	NE12526 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)- Draughtsman 
(Civil) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	2 	1 	4 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
189 	NER 	NE12626 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-workshop 
Calculation and Science 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
3 	1 	3 	4 	2 	13 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

190 	NER 	NE12726 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Instrument Mechanic) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
191 	NER 	NE12826 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-( Tool and Die maker) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
192 	NER 	NE12926 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-( Maintenance 
Millwright or Mechanic 
Machine Tool 
Maintenance) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
193 	NER 	NE13026 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-( Machinist Grinder) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
194 	NER 	NE13126 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Turner) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	1 	3 	3 	1 	10 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
195 	NER 	NE13226 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Machinist) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	3 	5 	1 	11 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
196 	NER 	NE13326 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Attendant 
Operator Chemical Plant) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

197 	NER 	NE13426 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Maintenance 
Mechanic Chemical Plant) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
198 	NER 	NE13526 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Instrument 
Mechanic Chemical Plant) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
199 	NER 	NE13626 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-Laboratory 
Assistant Chemical Plant)	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and  	Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
200 	NER 	NE13726 	Vocational Instructor (Except Women 
Training)-Cutting and 
Tailoring or Sewing Technology) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	1 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
201 	NER 	NE13826 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Computer 
Operator and 
Programming Assistant) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	1 	4 	5 	1 	13 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 
202 	NER 	NE13926 	Vocational Instructor (Except Women 
Training)-(Solar Technician) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	2 	2 	1 	7 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
203 	NER 	NE14026 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Computer 
Hardware and Network Maintenance) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	1 	1 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

204 	NER 	NE14126 	Vocational Instructor (Except Women 
Training)-(Technician Mechatronics) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
205 	NER 	NE14226 	Vocational Instructor (Except Women 
Training)-(Internet of 
Things ( Smart 
Healthcare or Smart 
Agriculture or Smart City) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	1 	1 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
206 	NER 	NE14326 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Electrician or 
Maintenance Electrician)	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and  	Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
4 	1 	7 	10 	3 	25 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
207 	NER 	NE14426 	Vocational Instructor 
(Except Women 
Training)-(Electronics or Electronics Mechanic) 	 Directorate General of 
Training (DGT), Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
3 	2 	3 	3 	2 	13 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
208 	NER 	NE14526 	MULTI TASKING STAFF 	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
2 	2 	4 	7 	3 	18 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 
209 	NR 	NR10126 	Market Intelligence Inspector (Economics) 	Economics, Statistics & 
Evaluation Division, 
Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare 	18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
210 	NR 	NR10226 	Driver- cum-Mechanic 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	4 	0 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

211 	NR 	NR10326 	Technical Assistant 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	6 	6 	0 	14 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
212 	NR 	NR10426 	Scientific Assistant 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
3 	2 	10 	14 	0 	29 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 
213 	NR 	NR10526 	Mechanic (Electric cum 
Laboratory Equipment) 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
214 	NR 	NR10626 	Junior Technical Assistant 	Petroleum and Explosives 
Safety Organization (PESO), O/o Chief Controller of 
Explosives, Department for 
Promotion of Industry and 
Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce & Industry 	18- 25 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	8 	4 	15 	25 	6 	58 	6 	1 	1 	0 	0 
215 	NR 	NR10726 	Junior Wireless Officers 	Department of 
Telecommunications, 
Ministry of Communications	18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	13 	1 	2 	38 	6 	60 	0 	0 	0 	1 	1 

216 	NR 	NR10826 	Accounts & Statistical Assistant 	 Directorate of Sugar and 
Vegetable Oils, Department of Food and Public 
Distribution, Ministry of 
Consumer Affairs, Food, & Public Distribution 	18- 27 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
217 	NR 	NR10926 	Canteen Attendant 	 Department of Food and 
Public Distribution, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food, 
& Public Distribution 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
218 	NR 	NR11026 	Assistant Halwai-cumCook 	Department of Food and 
Public Distribution, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food, 
& Public Distribution 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
219 	NR 	NR11126 	Operator (Senior Grade) 	 National Test House, 
Department of Consumer 
Affairs, Ministry of 
Consumer Affairs, Food, & Public Distribution 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
220 	NR 	NR11226 	Operator (Ordinary Grade) 	 National Test House, 
Department of Consumer 
Affairs, Ministry of 
Consumer Affairs, Food, & Public Distribution 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
221 	NR 	NR11326 	Junior Technical Assistant 	Admin-II Section, Ministry of Corporate Affairs 	 
18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
7 	5 	7 	17 	2 	38 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 
222 	NR 	NR11426 	Senior Technical Assistant 	Admin-II Section, Ministry of Corporate Affairs 	 
18- 30 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	0 	2 	3 	0 	7 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
223 	NR 	NR11526 	Junior Legal Assistant 	 National Company Law 
Tribunal (NCLT), Ministry of Corporate Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	7 	4 	14 	2 	29 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 

224 	NR 	NR11626 	Staff Car Driver (Ordinary Grade) 	 Directorate General of Aeronautical Quality 
Assurance (DGAQA), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
225 	NR 	NR11726 	Junior Engineer (Naval 
Quality Assurance) - Metallurgy 	 Directorate of Quality 
Assurance (Naval), 
Department of Defence 
Production, Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
226 	NR 	NR11826 	Library & Information Assistant 	Office of the Joint Secretary 
& Chief Administrative 
Officers (O/O JS & CAO) , 
Integrated Headquarters of 
Ministry of Defence (Army, 
Navy and Air), Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
227 	NR 	NR11926 	Data Entry Operator, Grade 'B' 	Office of the Joint Secretary 
& Chief Administrative 
Officers (O/O JS & CAO) , 
Department of Defence, Ministry of Defence 	18- 25 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
3 	1 	4 	11 	1 	20 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
228 	NR 	NR12126 	Staff Car Driver (Ordinary Grade) 	India Meteorological 
Department (IMD), Ministry of Earth Sciences 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	1 	3 	8 	1 	14 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
229 	NR 	NR12226 	Telephone Operator 	 Forest Survey of India, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change,	18- 27 
 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
230 	NR 	NR12326 	Research Assistant (Environment)  	 Ministry of Environment & Forests and Climate Change 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
231 	NR 	NR12426 	Research Investigator (Forestry)  	 Ministry of Environment & Forests and Climate Change 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	1 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

232 	NR 	NR12526 	MTS (Assistant Keeper, Attendant) 	National Zoological Park, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
4 	2 	7 	49 	2 	64 	16 	1 	1 	0 	0 
233 	NR 	NR12626 	Senior Educational Assistant 	National Museum of Natural
History, Ministry of 
Environment & Forests and Climate Change 	 
18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
234 	NR 	NR12726 	Senior Technical Assistant (Exhibition) 	National Museum of Natural
History, Ministry of 
Environment & Forests and Climate Change 	 
18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
235 	NR 	NR12826 	Laboratory Assistant 	 National Zoological Park, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
236 	NR 	NR12926 	Driver (Ordinary Grade) 	Forest Survey of India, 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
237 	NR 	NR13026 	Stockman (Junior Grade) 	 Central Herd Registration 
Scheme, Department of 
Animal Husbandry and 
Dairying, Ministry of 
Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
238 	NR 	NR13626 	Assistant (Architectural Department) 	Central Public Works 
Department , CPWD, 
Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs 	18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	1 	10 	0 	12 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 

239 	NR 	NR13726 	Photo and Video Journalist Grade-II 	Photo Division , Press 
Information Bureau, 
Ministry of Information & Broadcasting 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	2 	4 	1 	8 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
240 	NR 	NR14726 	Language Instructor (Oriya & Bengali) 	 Lal Bahadur Shastri 
National Academy of 
Administration (LBSNAA), 
Department of Personnel 
and Training, Ministry of 
Personnel, Public 
Grievances & Pensions 	18- 30 	Level 8 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
241 	NR 	NR14826 	Language Instructor (Malayalam & Kannada) 	 Lal Bahadur Shastri 
National Academy of 
Administration (LBSNAA), 
Department of Personnel 
and Training, Ministry of 
Personnel, Public 
Grievances & Pensions 	18- 30 	Level 8 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
242 	NR 	NR14926 	Language Instructor (Tamil & Telugu) 	 Lal Bahadur Shastri 
National Academy of 
Administration (LBSNAA), 
Department of Personnel 
and Training, Ministry of Personnel, Public 
Grievances & Pensions 	18- 30 	Level 8 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
243 	NR 	NR15026 	Language Instructor (Marathi & Gujarati) 	 Lal Bahadur Shastri 
National Academy of 
Administration (LBSNAA), 
Department of Personnel 
and Training, Ministry of 
Personnel, Public 
Grievances & Pensions 	18- 30 	Level 8 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

244 	NR 	NR15126 	Language Instructor (Assamese & Manipuri) 	 Lal Bahadur Shastri 
National Academy of 
Administration (LBSNAA), 
Department of Personnel 
and Training, Ministry of 
Personnel, Public 
Grievances & Pensions 	18- 30 	Level 8 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
245 	NR 	NR15226 	Language Instructor (Punjabi & Urdu) 	 Lal Bahadur Shastri 
National Academy of 
Administration (LBSNAA), 
Department of Personnel 
and Training, Ministry of Personnel, Public 
Grievances & Pensions 	18- 30 	Level 8 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
246 	NR 	NR15326 	Library and Information Assistant (LIA) 	 Ministry of Road Transport & Highways 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
247 	NR 	NR15426 	Junior Accounts Officer (JAO) 	 Department of Land 
Resources, Ministry of Rural Development 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
248 	NR 	NR15526 	Senior Store Keeper 	Survey of India , 
Department of Science and 
Technology, Ministry of 
Science & Technology 	18- 27 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	1 	3 	1 	7 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 
249 	NR 	NR15626 	Store Keeper 	Survey of India , 
Department of Science and 
Technology, Ministry of 
Science & Technology 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	2 	1 	3 	3 	1 	10 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
250 	NR 	NR18726 	Library and Information Assistant (LIA) 	 Ministry of External Affairs 	 18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

251 	NR 	NR18826 	Caretaker 	 UPSC, Union Public Service Commission 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
252 	NR 	NR18926 	Technical Assistant (Accounts) 	 UPSC, Union Public Service Commission 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
253 	NR 	NR19026 	Halwai-cum-Cook 	 UPSC, Union Public Service Commission 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
254 	NR 	NR19226 	Draughtsman Grade II 	Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare 	 
18- 27 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
255 	NR 	NR19326 	Multi-Tasking Staff (Technical) 	Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare , 
Ministry of Agriculture & 
Farmers Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	1 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
256 	NR 	NR19426 	Accountant 	CEPTAM, DRDO, 
Department of Defence 
Research and Development,
Ministry of Defence 	18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	4 	10 	1 	17 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
257 	NR 	NR19826 	Girl Cadet Instructor (GCI) 	Office- Directorate General NCC, Ministry of Defence, 	20- 25 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
11 	9 	28 	19 	31 	98 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
258 	NWR 	NW10126 	Senior Technical Assistant (Chemical) 	 Central Ground Water 
Board, Department of 
Water Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

259 	NWR 	NW10226 	Senior Technical Assistant (Geophysics) 	 Central Ground Water 
Board, Department of 
Water Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
260 	NWR 	NW10326 	Senior Technical Assistant (Hydrogeology)	 Central Ground Water 
Board, Department of 
Water Resources, River 
 Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
261 	NWR 	NW10426 	Senior Technical 
Assistant 
(Hydrometeorology) 	 Central Ground Water 
Board, Department of 
Water Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
262 	NWR 	NW10526 	Assistant Technical Officer 	 Central Research Institute, Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	1 	4 	6 	1 	14 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
263 	NWR 	NW10626 	Workshop Attendant 	 Central Research Institute, Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	1 	0 	4 	1 	6 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
264 	NWR 	NW10726 	Laboratory Attendant 	 Central Research Institute, Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
10 	5 	12 	14 	2 	43 	5 	1 	1 	0 	0 
265 	NWR 	NW10826 	Laboratory Attendant 	Regional Drugs Testing 
Laboratory , Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

266 	NWR 	NW10926 	Driver-Cum-Mechanics 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
267 	NWR 	NW11026 	Library and Information Assistant 	Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, 
Department of Agriculture 
& Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare 	18- 30 
 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
268 	NWR 	NW11126 	Library and Information Assistant 	 Anthropological Survey of India, Ministry of Culture 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	2 	2 	0 	5 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
269 	NWR 	NW11226 	Research Associate 
(Physical Anthropology Division) 	 Anthropological Survey of India, Ministry of Culture 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	1 	3 	0 	5 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
270 	NWR 	NW11326 	Research Associate (BioChemistry) 	 Anthropological Survey of India, Ministry of Culture 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
271 	NWR 	NW11426 	Research Associate (Cultural Anthropology) 	 Anthropological Survey of India, Ministry of Culture 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
272 	NWR 	NW11526 	Photographer (Micro) 	 Anthropological Survey of India, Ministry of Culture 	18- 25 	Level 5 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
273 	NWR 	NW11626 	Junior Translator 	 Anthropological Survey of India, Ministry of Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
274 	NWR 	NW11726 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and Language) 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	0 	1 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
275 	NWR 	NW11826 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and 
Language) (Bodo Language) 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

276 	NWR 	NW11926 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and 
Language) (Dogri Language) 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
277 	NWR 	NW12026 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and 
Language) (Konkani Language) 	National Library, Ministry of 
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
278 	NWR 	NW12126 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and 
Language) (Maithili Language) 	National Library, Ministry of 
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
279 	NWR 	NW12226 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and 
Language) (Manipuri Language) 	National Library, Ministry of 
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
280 	NWR 	NW12326 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and 
Language) (Nepali 
Language) 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
281 	NWR 	NW12426 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and 
Language) (Santhali  Language) 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
282 	NWR 	NW12526 	Library and Information 
Assistant (General and 
Language) (Sindhi 
Language) 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
283 	NWR 	NW12626 	Library and Information 
Assistant (Preservation) 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
284 	NWR 	NW12726 	Library Clerk (General) 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
3 	1 	8 	0 	2 	14 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
285 	NWR 	NW12826 	Assistant Manager cum Storekeeper 	 National Library, Ministry of
Culture 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

286 	NWR 	NW12926 	Mechanic (Electric cum 
Laboratory Equipment) 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
287 	NWR 	NW13026 	Assistant Plant 
Protection Officer (Plant 
Pathology/ Virology/ Bacteriology) 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	0 	6 	3 	10 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
288 	NWR 	NW13126 	Assistant Plant 
Protection Officer (Entomology/ 
Nematology ) 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	3 	7 	1 	12 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
289 	NWR 	NW13226 	Assistant Plant 
Protection Officer (Weed Science) 	 Directorate of Plant 
Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Department of 
 	Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	3 	4 	0 	9 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
290 	NWR 	NW13326 	Library and Information Assistant 	Central Administrative 
Tribunal, Department of 
Personnel and Training, 
Ministry of Personnel, 
Public Grievances & Pensions 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

291 	SR 	SR10126 	Navigational Assistant Grade-II 	Directorate General of 
Lighthouses & Lightships, 
Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways 	18- 27 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	1 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
292 	SR 	SR10226 	Textile Designer 	O/o the Development Commissioner for 
Handlooms, Weavers, 
Service Centre, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	5 	7 	2 	15 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 
293 	SR 	SR10326 	Farm Assistant 	Regional Fodder Station, Department of Animal 
Husbandry and Dairying, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
294 	SR 	SR10426 	Court Master 	Customs Excise and Service 
Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(CESTAT),  Department of 
Revenue, Ministry of Finance 	18- 30 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
295 	SR 	SR10526 	Pharmacist cum Clerk 	Government Medical Store 
Depot, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare 	21- 28 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

296 	SR 	SR10626 	Lower Division Clerk 	Petroleum and Explosives safety Organization, O/o Chief Controller of 
Explosives, Department for 
Promotion of Industry and 
Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce & Industry 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
2 	0 	0 	2 	1 	5 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
297 	SR 	SR10726 	Stenographer Grade-III 	Petroleum and Explosives safety Organization, O/o 
Chief Controller of 
Explosives, Department for 
Promotion of Industry and 
Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce & Industry 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	1 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
298 	SR 	SR10826 	Engine Driver 	HQENC, NHQ Ministry of Defence 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
299 	SR 	SR10926 	Fireman 	HQENC, NHQ Ministry of Defence 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
300 	SR 	SR11026 	LASCAR-I 	HQENC, NHQ Ministry of Defence 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
6 	4 	2 	8 	5 	25 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 
301 	SR 	SR11126 	Master Grade II 	HQENC, NHQ Ministry of Defence 	18- 25 	Level 5 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
302 	SR 	SR11226 	Syrang of Lascars  	HQENC, NHQ Ministry of Defence 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
303 	SR 	SR11326 	Tindal of Lascar 	HQENC, NHQ Ministry of Defence 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

304 	SR 	SR11426 	Laboratory Attendant  	Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
305 	SR 	SR11526 	Dhobi  	Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
306 	SR 	SR11626 	Fitter 	Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
307 	SR 	SR11726 	Radiographer  	Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

308 	SR 	SR11826 	Junior Technical Assistant (Chemical) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	1 	1 	4 	1 	7 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
309 	SR 	SR11926 	Junior Technical Assistant (Geophysics) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
310 	SR 	SR12026 	Junior Technical Assistant (Geology) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	1 	2 	0 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
311 	SR 	SR12126 	Drilling Assistant Grade - 
I 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	3 	0 	4 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
312 	SR 	SR12226 	Drilling Assistant Grade - 
II 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 3 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	4 	0 	5 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 
313 	SR 	SR12326 	Technical Operator 
(Drilling) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	2 	5 	0 	8 	1 	1 	0 	0 	0 
314 	SR 	SR12426 	Assistant Store Keeper 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

315 	SR 	SR12526 	Stores Clerk (LDC Level) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
316 	SR 	SR12626 	Senior Projectionist  	Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel 
National Police Academy, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
317 	SR 	SR12726 	Maintenance Supervisor 
(Mechanical/ Civil 
Engineering/ Electrical/ 
Workshop/ NonDestructive) 	National Test House, 
Department of Consumer 
Affairs, Ministry of 
Consumer Affairs, Food, & Public Distribution 	18- 25 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
318 	SR 	SR12826 	Staff Car Driver (Ordinary Grade) 	Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
319 	SR 	SR12926 	Nursing Orderly 	Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel 
National Police Academy, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

320 	SR 	SR13026 	Canteen Attendant  	Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel 
National Police Academy, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
321 	SR 	SR13126 	Laboratory Assistant Grade II (Chemical) 	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
322 	SR 	SR13226 	Laboratory Assistant Grade - II (Geophysics)  	Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
323 	SR 	SR13326 	Laboratory Assistant Grade II (Geology)  	 Geological Survey of India, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	2 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
324 	SR 	SR13426 	Laboratory Attendant 	Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	2 	0 	3 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
325 	SR 	SR13526 	Library and Information Assistant 	Central Institute of 
Fisheries, Nautical and 
Engineering Training, 
Department of Fisheries, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 

326 	SR 	SR13626 	Clerk  	Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel 
National Police Academy, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
327 	SR 	SR13726 	Laboratory Attendant 	Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel 
National Police Academy, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
328 	SR 	SR13826 	Lower Division Clerk 	Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
329 	SR 	SR13926 	Senior Scientific Assistant (Toxicology) 	Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi  	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
330 	SR 	SR14026 	Laboratory Technician 	Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel 
National Police Academy, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

331 	SR 	SR14126 	Technical 
Superintendent 
(Weaving)  	O/o the Development Commissioner for 
Handlooms, Weavers 
Service Centre, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	2 	0 	0 	2 	0 	4 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
332 	SR 	SR14226 	Technical 
Superintendent 
(Processing) 	O/o the Development Commissioner for 
Handlooms, Weavers 
Service Centre, Ministry of Textiles 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	2 	5 	0 	7 	0 	0 	2 	0 	0 
333 	SR 	SR14326 	Data Entry Operator Grade A 	Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
334 	SR 	SR14426 	Library Attendant 	Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, 
Directorate General  of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 
 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

335 	SR 	SR14526 	Farm Assistant  	Regional Fodder Station, Department of Animal 
Husbandry and Dairying, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 25 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
336 	SR 	SR14626 	Nursing Officer  	Central Leprosy Teaching and Research Institute, Directorate General of 
Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 7 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	2 	0 	5 	2 	9 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
337 	SR 	SR14726 	Junior Engineer 	Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles,  	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	0 	2 	0 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
338 	WR 	WR10126 	Multi-Tasking Staff (NonTechnical) 	Indian Meteorological 
Department, Mausam 
Bhavan, Director General of 
Meteorology, Ministry of Earth Sciences 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	1 	17 	46 	6 	70 	7 	0 	1 	0 	1 
339 	WR 	WR10226 	Junior Technician (Orthotic) 	All India Institute of Physical
Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
2 	1 	2 	4 	1 	10 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 

340 	WR 	WR10326 	Junior Technician (Leather Technology) 	All India Institute of 
Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Directorate General  of Health 
Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	18- 27 
 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	1 	1 	0 	1 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
341 	WR 	WR10426 	Driver Mechanic (Ordinary Grade) 	National Disaster Response 
Force Academy, 
Department of Home, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
342 	WR 	WR10526 	Research Assistant (Engineering) (Civil) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	1 	2 	6 	1 	12 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 
343 	WR 	WR10626 	Research Assistant 
(Engineering) 
(Mechanical) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
344 	WR 	WR10726 	Research Assistant 
(Engineering) 
(Electronics 
Instrumentation) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

345 	WR 	WR10826 	Research Assistant (Engineering) (Electrical) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	1 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
346 	WR 	WR10926 	Research Assistant 
(Engineering) (Computer Science)  	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
 	Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	1 	2 	0 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
347 	WR 	WR11026 	Research Assistant (Scientific) (Geo -Physics)	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
348 	WR 	WR11126 	Research Assistant 
(Scientific) (Physics)  	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	1 	3 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
349 	WR 	WR11226 	Research Assistant 
(Scientific) 
(Mathematics) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

350 	WR 	WR11326 	Research Assistant (Scientific) (Chemistry) 	Central Water and Power 
Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	18- 30 
 	Level 7 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
351 	WR 	WR11426 	Laboratory Assistant Grade-II (Physics) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	21- 27 
 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	0 	2 	5 	1 	10 	1 	1 	0 	0 	0 
352 	WR 	WR11526 	Laboratory Assistant Grade-II (Chemistry) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	21- 27 
 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
353 	WR 	WR11626 	Laboratory Assistant 
Grade-II  (Computer Science) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	21- 27 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	1 	2 	4 	1 	10 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 
354 	WR 	WR11726 	Laboratory Assistant Grade-II (Mathematics) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	21- 27 
 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
2 	1 	1 	5 	1 	10 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 

355 	WR 	WR11826 	Laboratory Assistant Grade-II (Statistics) 	Central Water Power Research Station, 
Department of Water 
Resources, River 
Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti 	21- 27 
 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
356 	WR 	WR11926 	Stockman, (Junior Grade)	Central Herd Registration 
Scheme, Department of 
Animal Husbandry and 
Dairying, Ministry of 
Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	1 	1 	3 	0 	5 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
357 	WR 	WR12026 	Marine Electrician 	Fishery Survey of India , 
Department of Fisheries, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
358 	WR 	WR12126 	Sr. Scientific Assistant 	Fishery Survey of India , 
Department of Fisheries, 
Ministry of Fisheries, 
Animal Husbandry and Dairying 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

359 	WR 	WR12226 	Senior Technical Assistant 	Directorate of Cotton 
Development, Department of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare, Ministry of 
Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
360 	WR 	WR12326 	Multi-Tasking Staff (NonTechnical) 	Geological Survey of India, 
Central Region, Geological 
Survey of India, Ministry of Mines, Ministry of Mines 	18- 25 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	10 	12 	3 	25 	2 	1 	1 	1 	1 
361 	WR 	WR12426 	Instructor (Vocational 
Training Workshop) -in Carpenter trade. 	All India Institute of Physical
Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
362 	WR 	WR12526 	Deputy Ranger 	Forest survey of India, RO 
(Central), Ministry of 
Environment & Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
363 	WR 	WR12726 	Junior Technician (Electroplating) 	All India Institute of Physical
Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Directorate 
General  of Health Services, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
364 	WR 	WR12826 	Mechanic 	National Fire Service 
College, Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 

365 	WR 	WR12926 	Fire and Rescue Operator 	National Fire Service College , Ministry of Home Affairs 	 
18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
366 	WR 	WR13026 	Laboratory Assistant 	National Fire Service 
College, Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	1 	2 	1 	4 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
367 	WR 	WR13126 	Store Keeper 	National Fire Service 
College, Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 4 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
368 	WR 	WR13226 	Fieldman 	Forest Survey of India, 
Regional Office (Central), 
Ministry of Environment & 
Forests and Climate Change 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
369 	WR 	WR13326 	Speech Therapist 	Directorate General Armed 
Force Medical Service 
(DGAFMS), Department of Defence, M/o Defence 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
370 	WR 	WR13426 	Driver 	Government Medical Store Depot, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
18- 25 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
371 	WR 	WR13526 	Pharmacist-Cum-Clerk 	Government Medical Store Depot, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
21- 28 	Level 5 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	1 	4 	1 	7 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
372 	WR 	WR13626 	Assistant Chemist 	Government Medical Store Depot, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare 	 
23- 28 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	0 	1 	0 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
373 	WR 	WR13726 	Staff Car Driver (Ordinary Grade) 	India Tourism Office, Ministry of Tourism 	18- 27 	Level 2 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
374 	WR 	WR13826 	Laboratory Attendant 	 Central Forensic Science 
Laboratory, Directorate of 
Forensic Science Services, 
Ministry of Home Affairs 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Matriculation (10th) 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
375 	WR 	WR13926 	Junior Technical Assistant (Ore Dressing) 	 Indian Bureau of Mines, Ministry of Mines, 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	1 	2 	1 	5 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
376 	WR 	WR14026 	Laboratory Attendant 	 Indian Bureau of Mines, Ministry of Mines, 	18- 27 	Level 1 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	3 	0 	6 	7 	3 	19 	3 	0 	0 	0 	0 
377 	WR 	WR14126 	Technical Assistant (Publication) 	 Indian Bureau of Mines, Ministry of Mines, 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
378 	WR 	WR14226 	Junior Chemist 	 Directorate Marketing & 
Inspection, M/o Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 30 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	2 	0 	12 	1 	16 	2 	0 	0 	0 	0 
379 	WR 	WR14326 	Accountant 	National Centre for Organic and Natural Farming, Dept. 
of Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare, M/o Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 27 	Level 5 	Graduation & Above 	 
0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
380 	WR 	WR14426 	Laboratory Assistant 	National Centre for Organic 
& Natural Farming, Dept. of 
Agriculture & Farmers 
Welfare, M/o Agriculture & Farmers Welfare 	18- 25 	Level 2 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
381 	WR 	WR14526 	Senior Technical Assistant (Drawing) 	 Indian Bureau of Mines, Ministry of Mines 	18- 30 	Level 6 	Graduation & Above 	 
1 	0 	3 	4 	0 	8 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 
382 	WR 	WR14626 	Navigational Assistant Grade-II 	Directorate of Lighthouses 
& Lightships VTS, Ministry of
Ports, Shipping and Waterways 	 
18- 27 	Level 6 	Higher 
Secondary 
(10+2) 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	1 	0 	0 	0 	0 	0 
	Total 	346 	185 	667 	1534 	271 	3003 	101 	40 	40 	24 	15 
		SC 	ST 	OBC 	UR 	EWS 	Total 	ESM 	OH 	HH 	VH 	Others
 ----- now, i need to find out, the total, vacancies for each category, what region includes, which states & what post has what pay level & its code, codes for all the posts of all regions , clearly formatted, no mistakes, & beautifully data presentation & make a pdf, & make sure the data is correct, double check, & then tell me which region has the most posts for st category & what the name of them , & codes ( along with ) , & pay level, ( matriculaition / 10 + 2 / graduation ) ? 
